['cbs-news', '109', 'David Morgan', 'Notable deaths in 2018', "A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity", 'https://www.cbsnews.com/pictures/notable-deaths-in-2018/', 'https://cbsnews1.cbsistatic.com/hub/i/r/2018/04/20/b5bd33b7-eedb-4aaf-ab86-d9fa826bcb86/thumbnail/1200x630/0c4bd0f0f0612d04920b3693a8d9026c/carl-kasell-promo-getty-95493162.jpg', '2018-01-15T19:14:07+00:00']
"I spend a lot of time working on sounds and finding sounds and finding ways of creating something  looking at things that excite me, that I haven't heard," Jhannsson told the online publication Consequence of Sound in 2016.
Credit: Paramount Pictures
Reg E. Cathey
Born in Huntsville, Ala., Reg E. Cathey (August 18, 1958-February 9, 2018) grew up on a farm in West Germany (his father was an Army officer, his mother a Defense Department employee of secret responsibilities). He would go on to study acting at the University of Michigan (where he and friend Madonna appeared in what he once described as "the worst production of 'West Side Story' ever"), and at the Yale School of Drama.
Known for his deep baritone, Cathey appeared on the kids' show "Square One;" in Shakespeare productions at Joseph Papp's Public Theatre in New York; and such films as "And the Band Played On," "Tank Girl," "Fantastic Four" and "The Machinist." He drew attention with roles in "Homicide: Life on the Street," "The Corner," "Oz," and "The Wire." And as barbecue joint owner Freddy Hayes in "House of Cards," Cathey earned three Emmy nominations and won one award.
In 2017 he recalled for the magazine American Theatre his time at Yale following the death of two acting teachers: "I remember Andrei Belgrader coming in; he took one look at us and said, 'Okay, you guys are traumatized,' and he took us all out for coffee. Later he had us pick a scene to do but said, 'You have to be terrible. You have to do all the bad acting you can.' It was the most fun class ever. His point was that it's okay to fail because that's the only way you're going to get better. I kept that lesson."
Credit: Jason Kempin/Getty Images
John Gavin
A dashing, 6-foot-4-inch actor who appeared in such Hollywood films as "A Time to Love and a Time to Die," "Imitation of Life," "Spartacus" and "Psycho," John Gavin (April 8, 1931-February 9, 2018) would become as well-known for diplomacy as for acting.
Fluent in Spanish and Portuguese, he had served in Panama as Pan-American affairs officer to the Navy commandant during the 1950s, and in the early '60s he was appointed special adviser to the secretary-general of the Organization of American States to promote President Kennedy's Alliance for Progress. He served as President of the Screen Actors Guild from 1971-73.
President Ronald Reagan named Gavin U.S. Ambassador to Mexico, a position he held for five years.
In 1973, while appearing on Broadway in the musical "Seesaw," Gavin told United Features Syndicate, "For a long time I wondered if I should have gone into something worthwhile, such as being a doctor. To the bitter end Spencer Tracy was also tortured with the same agony. I've only recently realized that there's an actor in every human being - and to let it out, to let it happen is a very wonderful, very giving thing. But I would have been so much happier in the past if I realized it sooner. You see, I would have relaxed."
Credit: Universal Pictures
John Mahoney
John Mahoney (June 20, 1940-February 4, 2018), a native of Manchester, England, remembered huddling in an air raid shelter and playing among bombed-out houses during the war. One sister, who moved to the Midwest after marrying a U.S. sailor, was responsible for Mahoney's decision to make his life in America. He visited Chicago as a college student and fell in love with it, and become a U.S. citizen. But editing a medical journal did not seem like a life for him. So, in his mid-30s, he began taking acting lessons, and joined the Steppenwolf Theatre Company.
He told the Chicago Tribute in 2004, "By the time I started my career, most people had given up and started selling insurance. I didn't have so much competition."
He would appear on stage in "I Never Sang for My Father," "Orphans," "The Seafarer," "The Dresser," "Balm in Gilead," "Prelude to a Kiss," "The Diary of Anne Frank," "Long Days Journey into Night," and "After the Fall." For his Broadway debut, "The House of Blue Leaves," he won a Tony Award for Best Actor.
His film roles included "Moonstruck," "Eight Men Out," "Tin Men," "Say Anything" and "Barton Fink." Mahoney is most recognizable as the father on the TV sitcom "Frasier," playing the grumpy dad of Kelsey Grammer and David Hyde Pierce. He earned two Emmy nominations for his portrayal.
Credit: Steppenwolf Theatre Company
Dennis Edwards
After he was signed by Motown Records, soul and R&B singer Dennis Edwards (February 3, 1943-February 2, 2018) performed as part of the opening act for The Temptations. When that group's lead singer David Ruffin was dismissed, Edwards (pictured, second from right) was brought on, debuting on the album "Cloud Nine." He sang with the group at various periods between 1968 and 1987, as the Temptations veered from soul to a more psychedelic/funk sound.
Edwards can be heard on such hits as "Runaway Child, Running Wild," "Psychedelic Shack," "I Can't Get Next to You," "Mother Nature," "Masterpiece," "Happy People," and the Grammy-winning "Papa Was a Rollin' Stone."
As a solo artist in the mid-'80s, Edwards hit No. 2 on the R&B charts with his album, "Don't Look Any Further."
Credit: Lennox McLendon/AP
Coco Schumann
Heinz Jakob "Coco" Schumann (May 14, 1924-January 28, 2018) made a name for himself as a young musician in Berlin's underground jazz and swing scene in the 1930s. He was arrested in 1943 after authorities learned his mother was Jewish, and deported to the Theresienstadt concentration camp in German-occupied Czechoslovakia. There, he played in a band known as the "Ghetto Swingers" (whom the Nazis presented to the Red Cross as "proof" of humane treatment at such camps), before being transferred to Auschwitz in 1944, where he played to entertain the guards.
After the war Schumann emigrated to Australia, before returning to Berlin in the mid-1950s and re-establishing his music career. He performed with such artists as Ella Fitzgerald, Louis Armstrong and Marlene Dietrich, and taught music, with a preference for the electric guitar.
Of his taste for jazz and swing, and the improvisation that is part of the form, Schumann liked to say that notes are only black dots: "One has to bring them to life."
Credit: Johannes Simon/Getty Images
Mort Walker
Comic strip artist and World War II veteran Mort Walker (September 3, 1923-January 27, 2018) began publishing cartoons at age 11. It was in one of his cartoons published by the Saturday Evening Post in the late 1940s that a character named Spider made his debut. Spider would become "Beetle Bailey," star of his own strip launched in 1950.
The strip struggled at first, and after the start of the Korean War King Features Syndicate suggested Walker have his character, a slacker college student, enlist in the Army. Beetle and the other service members at Camp Swampy would go on to entertain millions for nearly 70 years (though Stars & Stripes dropped it in 1954, fearing it would encourage disrespect of officers!).
Walker attributed the success of the strip to Beetle's indolence and reluctance to follow authority. "Most people are sort of against authority," he said. "Here's Beetle always challenging authority. I think people relate to it."
In spite of Stars & Stripes' concern back in the '50s, in 2000 Walker was honored at the Pentagon with the Army's highest civilian award - the Distinguished Civilian Service award.
Walker was also involved - as an artist or a writer - with several other popular comic strips, including "Hi and Lois," ''Boner's Ark," "Sam & Silo" and "Mrs. Fitz's Flats." He also founded a museum of cartoon art, and was generous with advice for aspiring cartoonists.
Credit: CBS News
John Morris
Composer John Morris (October 18, 1926-January 25, 2018) had begun working with comedy writer Mel Books in the 1950s, both brought in to repair the Broadway musical "Shinbone Alley." So it was that the two collaborated on Brooks' first movie, a hilarious tale of Broadway shysters, "The Producers." Morris created the film's original score as well as for the hapless musical "Springtime for Hitler," which would (much to the film's scheming producers' horror) becomes a bona fide hit.
Play Excerpt: "Springtime for Hitler," from "The Producers"
Morris also wrote music for Brooks' "Blazing Saddles" (including the Oscar-nominated theme song), "Young Frankenstein," "Silent Movie," "High Anxiety" and other comedies, as well as a very poignant score for a film that Brooks produced, David Lynch's "The Elephant Man," for which Morris received his second Academy Award nomination.
Credit: Embassy Pictures/MGM
Warren Miller
A World War II veteran, ski racer, surfer and sailor, Warren Miller (October 15, 1924-January 24, 2018) was 15 when he took his first ski run with his Boy Scout troop, at Mount Waterman near Los Angeles. "I really believe in my heart that that first turn you make on a pair of skis is your first taste of total freedom, the first time in your life that you could go anywhere that your adrenaline would let you go," he told the Seattle Times in 2010.
Miller would produce, direct and narrate hundreds of films about outdoor sports, including surfing and sailing. But he was best known for his ski films, beginning with 1950's "Deep and Light." Each subsequent feature (including "Have Skis, Will Travel," "Any Snow, Any Mountain" and "Steep and Deep") would help popularize the sport with thrill-seeking spectacles of daredevils hitting the slopes.
Credit: Getty Images
Hugh Masekela
Legendary musician and anti-apartheid activist Hugh Masekela (April 4, 1939-January 23, 2018) was often called "Father of South African jazz," the rare artist who succeeded in fusing politics with music. A trumpeter, singer and composer, Masekela started playing the horn at 14. He quickly became an integral part of the 1950s jazz scene in Johannesburg. In the 1960s he went into exile in the United Kingdom and the United States, while spreading awareness about South Africa's oppressive system of white-minority rule. Many of his compositions were about the struggle for majority rule and full democratic rights in South Africa.
He scored an international No. 1 hit in 1968 with his instrumental "Grazing in the Grass." His catchy upbeat 1987 song "Bring Him Back Home" calling for Nelson Mandela's release from prison became an international anthem for the anti-apartheid movement. In the 1980s he appeared with Paul Simon as part of the "Graceland" album tour.
Excerpt: "Bring Him Back Home"
Masekela returned to South Africa in 1990 after Mandela was freed and the ban on the African National Congress party lifted.
"My biggest obsession is to show Africans and the world who the people of Africa really are," Masekela said on his website.
Credit: Triloka Records
Ursula K. Le Guin
A Grandmaster of Science Fiction (the rare female writer to attain that distinguished title), Ursula K. Le Guin (October 21, 1929-January 22, 2018) was known for exploring feminist themes. Her first novel was "Rocannon's World" (1966), but she gained fame three years later with "The Left Hand of Darkness," which imagines a future society in which people are equally male and female, and dramatizes the perils of tyranny, violence and conformity. It won the Hugo and Nebula Awards - top honors in science fiction.
Her best-known works, the Earthsea books, have sold in the millions worldwide and have been translated into 16 languages. She also produced volumes of short stories, poetry, essays and literature for young adults, for which she received the Newbery Medal. Last year, she was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
"I know that I am always called 'the sci-fi writer.' Everybody wants to stick me into that one box, while I really live in several boxes," she told scifi.com.
Credit: Marian Wood Kolisch/ursulakleguin.com
Naomi Parker Fraley
Multiple women have been identified over the years as possible models for "Rosie the Riveter," the World War II icon of females manning the factory floors while men went off to battle. But in 2016 a Seton Hall University professor, writing in the journal Rhetoric & Public Affairs, focused on Naomi Parker Fraley (August 26, 1921-January 20, 2018) as the true inspiration.
Fraley, born in Tulsa, Oklahoma, went to work in the machine shop at the Naval Air Station in Alameda, Calif., following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor - one of the first women to do war work there.
A photo of Fraley on the job (sporting a polka-dot bandana and heels) was the basis for a widely-seen poster of a woman flexing her muscles with the caption, "We can do it!" The artwork became one of the most powerful propaganda images from the war years, and has since taken on significance as a striking feminist symbol of empowerment.
Credit: naomiparkerfraley.com/Library of Congress
Paul Bocuse
Born into a family of cooks that dates to the 1700s, master chef Paul Bocuse (February 11, 1926-January 20, 2018) defined French cuisine for more than half a century. Often referred to as the "pope of French cuisine," Bocuse was a tireless pioneer, the first chef to blend the art of cooking with savvy business tactics, branding his cuisine (and his image) to create an empire of restaurants around the globe.
Bocuse's temple to French gastronomy, L'Auberge du Pont de Collonges, outside the city of Lyon in southeastern France, has held three Michelin stars, without interruption, since 1965.
While excelling in the business of cooking, Bocuse never flagged in his devotion to his first love, creating a top class, quintessentially French meal. He eschewed the fads and experiments that captivated many other top chefs. "In cooking, there are those who are rap and those who are concerto," he once told the French newsmagazine L'Express, adding that he tended toward the concerto.
And his favorite ingredient? Butter. "(It's a) magical product," he said during a visit to the Culinary Institute of America. "Nothing replaces butter."
Credit: Laurent Cipriani/AP
Dorothy Malone
In her first notable film at Warner Brothers, "The Big Sleep" (pictured, top), she was cast as a bookshop clerk who lets her hair down, takes off her glasses and seduces private eye Humphrey Bogart. But after 11 years of mostly roles as loving sweethearts and wives, Dorothy Malone (January 30, 1924-January 19, 2018) decided she needed to gamble on her career instead of playing it safe. She fired her agent, hired a publicist, dyed her hair blonde and sought a new image. She welcomed the offer to play an alcoholic nymphomaniac who tries to steal Rock Hudson from wife Lauren Bacall, in "Written on the Wind" (bottom), and won an Oscar for it.
"I've been unfaithful or drunk or oversexed almost ever since - on the screen, of course," she said.
She would garner her widest popularity as Constance Mackenzie, the bookshop operator who harbored a dark secret about the birth of her daughter Allison (played by a young Mia Farrow) in "Peyton Place," the 1964-69 TV series based on Grace Metalious' steamy novel.
Credit: Warner Brothers/Universal Pictures
Stansfield Turner
A Rhodes scholar and 33-year Navy veteran, Admiral Stansfield Turner (December 1, 1923-January 18, 2018) commanded NATO's forces in southern Europe from 1975 to 1977 before being chosen by President Jimmy Carter to be director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Turner would oversee reforms at the agency after the Senate had uncovered CIA surveillance aimed at American citizens and assassination plots against foreign figures, including the hiring of Mafia hit men in a failed bid to kill Cuban leader Fidel Castro.
Turner (who would be unanimously confirmed by the Senate) promised at his confirmation hearing to conduct intelligence operations "strictly in accordance with the law and American values." He also said "covert operations must be handled very discreetly. People's lives are at stake."
Turner was the first director given full authority over the agency's $7 billion budget. Assassinations and medical experiments on unwitting human subjects were prohibited, and he dismissed more than 800 officers from the agency. But he also argued that some proposals aimed at sharing agency information with Congress went too far, because of operational sensitivity and the possibility of damaging leaks.
He also admitted later that the CIA had not fully anticipated the fall of the Shah in Iran or the economic and political collapse of the Soviet Union. "We were just plain asleep," he said.
Credit: AP
Dolores O'Riordan
Before she was 20, Dolores O'Riordan (September 6, 1971-January 15, 2018) - raised in a simple, admittedly non-materialistic family in County Limerick, Ireland - earned fame as the lead singer and lyricist of the Irish rock group The Cranberries, which would produce such '90s hits as "Linger," "Zombie" and "Dreams." The group, which sold more than 40 million records (including the albums "Everybody Else Is Doing It, So Why Can't We?," "No Need to Argue," "To the Faithful Departed," and "Bury the Hatchet"), broke up in 2003, but six years later reunited and began touring again. Their most recent album was 2017's "Something Else," comprised of acoustic and orchestral versions of their songs.
Excerpt: "Zombie" by The Cranberries
"A lot of evolution is about accepting the past and accepting the up-and-downs and realizing that things happen to make you stronger and more aware  and that's life," she told Rolling Stone in 2009. "A lot of things made me realize life is very fragile. People die of cancer. There are world-altering events like September 11. You realize that you cannot assume tomorrow is going to come. When you think about things like that, it makes you realize you could be gone tomorrow, so what the heck am I worrying about? It's just a realization, and it came to me in the last couple years. I'm really glad it did because I've just been more relaxed. "
Credit: WALTER BIERI/Keystone/AP
Keith Jackson
"Whoa, Nellie!" Sportscaster Keith Jackson (October 18, 1928-January 12, 2018) called contests in the NFL, MLB, NBA, PGA Tour golf, the Olympics, boxing, racing and college basketball, and was the first play-by-play man of ABC's "Monday Night Football."
But for generations of fans, Jackson's voice was synonymous with college football, as he spent 50 years in the booth covering games across the country.
"I think college football is a reflection of Middle America," Jackson told Sports Illustrated in 1979. "That's the kind of stock I'm from and that's where I think the strength of the country is. You go into a college football town, and you will find three generations of a family sitting together. It's a rallying point for the university, the community and the families."
Credit: AP
"Fast Eddie" Clarke
Guitarist Edward "Fast Eddie" Clarke (October 5, 1950-January 10, 2018) recorded with the progressive rock band Zeus, before joining the British hard rock band Motorhead soon after it was founded in 1975, with Ian "Lemmy" Kilmister and Phil "Philthy Animal" Taylor. During Clarke's time in Motorhead the band produced some of their biggest hits, including the ferocious anthem "Ace of Spades."
He left Motorhead in 1982 and later formed the band Fastway.
In 2014 Clarke issued a new album, "Make My Day - Back to Blues."
Credit: Motorhead/Facebook
John Young
A veteran Navy test pilot who brought an engineer's keen eye to three generations of spacecraft and NASA management, astronaut John Young (September 24, 1930-January 5, 2018) was the first man to fly in space six times, in Gemini, Apollo and space shuttle missions. After walking the lunar surface, he commanded the maiden voyage of the space shuttle, and oversaw 25 shuttle flights during the program's formative years.
A relentless advocate for improving flight safety, Young was occasionally a thorn in the side of NASA management, especially in the wake of the 1986 Challenger disaster. Throughout it all, he brought a dry wit, a ready smile, and a cool nerve that belied a near-photographic memory and encyclopedic knowledge of complex space systems.
Before blasting off aboard the shuttle Columbia on the first flight of the winged orbiter - the first time anyone had launched aboard the untried booster rockets - Young was asked if he had any worries. "Anyone who sits on top of the largest hydrogen-oxygen fueled system in the world, knowing they're going to light the bottom, and doesn't get a little worried, does not fully understand the situation," he famously deadpanned.
"My life has been long, and it has been interesting. It's also been a lot of fun, and a lot of hard, challenging work," Young once stated. "If I could do it over, I would do it over the very same way. Most of it has been a marvel to me."
Credit: NASA
Jerry Van Dyke
Actor and comedian Jerry Van Dyke (July 27, 1931-January 5, 2018) possessed the same likability as his brother, Dick Van Dyke, and even played the star's banjo-playing brother on "The Dick Van Dyke Show" - his first acting gig. "I came away thinking, 'TV is a piece of cake; I want more of this!'" he later told the Associated Press.
Van Dyke would make regular appearances on variety showcases like "The Judy Garland Show" and "The Ed Sullivan Show," and starred in one of the most high-concept situation comedies ever: "My Mother the Car," in which his character's deceased mother is reincarnated as a 1928 Porter automobile. He remarked in 1990 that his brother told him the show sounded promising - this at a time when a show featuring a talking horse was a hit. "I never asked him for advice after that," Jerry added.
With scores of TV and movie appearances (including "That Girl," "Gomer Pyle: USMC," "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," "Love, American Style," "The Love Boat," "Fantasy Island," and "Fresno"), Van Dyke scored his greatest success with the long-running ABC comedy "Coach," playing assistant coach Luther Van Dam opposite series star Craig T. Nelson. The role would earn Van Dyke four Emmy Award nominations.
Credit: CBS
