['the-new-york-times', '130', 'Katie Benner, Sharon LaFraniere and Nicholas Fandos', 'As Rod Rosenstein Battles to Protect Mueller, His Tactics Could Cost the Justice Dept.', 'Under siege by the president\xe2\x80\x99s allies in the House, Mr. Rosenstein has acceded to some demands. But his allies worry that may expose the Justice Department to political meddling.', 'https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/21/us/politics/rod-rosenstein-justice-department.html', 'https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/22/us/politics/22dc-rosenstein-print/00dc-rosenstein-facebookJumbo.jpg', '2018-04-21T19:58:29Z']
Opt out or contact us anytime
Mr. Sessions has scant ability to provide his deputy cover. If the president is mulling Mr. Rosensteins fate, he holds a deeper animus toward Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation.
Mr. Rosenstein addresses his own jeopardy with a blend of stoicism and black humor, according to friends. I may need to talk to you about a job, he jested to one Washington-area lawyer.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
He is not, however, trying to whip up political support for himself. He doesnt do the self-preservation game, said James M. Trusty, a friend who worked with him in Maryland. Hes very grounded and fatalistic. He plays it by the book.
Mr. Rosenstein is proceeding as though he will not be fired. On Monday, he is arguing a sentencing guidelines case on behalf of the federal government before the Supreme Court.
Mr. Rosenstein grew up in the Philadelphia suburbs, attended the University of Pennsylvania and graduated from Harvard Law School in 1989. He became a trial lawyer in the Justice Departments public integrity section in Washington and eventually worked with Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel who investigated President Bill Clintons business dealings. In 2005, President George W. Bush appointed him the United States attorney for Maryland. President Barack Obama kept him on.
The office he ran had been torn apart by political infighting and had a weak relationship with local law enforcement. In his first few months, Mr. Rosenstein gathered information from employees about what had gone wrong, then restructured the office. He reached out to state prosecutors and encouraged his staff members to work with them to fight violent crime. His ability to transcend politics gave him credibility, according to many who worked with him.
I never heard a political word escape from his lips, said Brian E. Frosh, the Democratic Maryland attorney general. He was smart, honest, fair, tough  everything you want in a prosecutor.
Mr. Sessions barely knew Mr. Rosenstein when he became his deputy, and Mr. Rosenstein had no obvious political patron. He was not expecting to become a household name: When his daughter asked whether his new job meant that he was now famous, he told her that few people know or care who served as deputy attorney general.
He and Mr. Sessions had little in common beyond their lengthy tenures as federal prosecutors and shared views on gangs, drugs and violent crime. And the tensions that almost always exist between attorneys general and their deputies have been exacerbated by the special counsel investigation and the resulting political pressures.
But associates say the men have bonded in the face of attacks from the White House.
After Mr. Trump publicly exploded against Mr. Rosenstein this month, Mr. Sessions called Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, to warn that firing the deputy attorney general would have damaging consequences, including the possible resignation of Mr. Sessions himself, according to a person briefed on the conversation.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Mr. Sessions told Mr. McGahn that the president needed to know that he believed that firing Mr. Rosenstein would be a misstep and that he had done nothing to justify such an ouster.
Mr. Rosensteins oversight of the special counsels office gives him broad powers to approve or veto Mr. Muellers investigative requests. Democrats and some Republicans worry that the president could fire Mr. Rosenstein and install a replacement who would use that power to narrow the scope of the special counsels inquiry.
Democratic senators have circulated a document arguing that a new deputy attorney general could deny Mr. Mueller the power to take investigative steps and decline to sign off on staff or resources, essentially undermining the investigation without officially ending it or prompting the kind of Republican backlash on Capitol Hill that firing Mr. Mueller almost certainly would. A new appointee could also refuse to publicly release a report when Mr. Muellers investigation concludes.
Mr. Rosenstein has made efforts to head off conflicts with the White House. Soon after the F.B.I. raided the office, home and hotel room of the presidents lawyer Michael D. Cohen this month, infuriating the president, Mr. Rosenstein and Mr. Trump met. Mr. Trump emerged telling people that Mr. Rosenstein had said he was not a target of the investigation into Mr. Cohens activities, according to two people with knowledge of the presidents account. Justice Department officials declined to comment on the meeting.
At the same time, the presidents staunchest supporters on Capitol Hill have put themselves in one standoff after another with Mr. Rosenstein. Among others, he has faced escalating demands and complaints from three committee chairmen: Representatives Robert W. Goodlatte of the Judiciary Committee, Devin Nunes of the Intelligence Committee and Trey Gowdy of the Oversight Committee.
In an interview this month on Fox News, Mr. Nunes threatened to hold Mr. Rosenstein in contempt or even impeach him if he failed to turn over the complete copy of the F.B.I. memo justifying the initiation of the counterintelligence investigation into the Trump campaign. Mr. Rosenstein called him to the Justice Department and gave him and other Intelligence Committee members access the next day to a version of the memo that satisfied their concerns.
In a separate request, Mr. Goodlatte and others have issued a subpoena for hundreds of thousands of documents  an extraordinary number even for Congress  related to the Clinton inquiry, the firing of the F.B.I.s former deputy director and other matters. When the lawmakers began complaining that the documents were coming slowly and with too much content blacked out, the Justice Department appointed a United States attorney in Illinois to oversee document review and production. The F.B.I. doubled the number of employees working on responses to a request for materials the Justice Departments inspector general was using to 54 people working two shifts a day, from 8 a.m. to midnight.
But some Republicans are still unsatisfied and have said a contempt citation or even impeachment  exceedingly rare steps that would require votes in the House  are still possibilities. Democrats fear that, taken together, the Republican requests are meant to offer Mr. Trump cover or even cause to fire Mr. Rosenstein.
In a meeting with Mr. Rosenstein in recent days, Mr. Jordan and Mr. Meadows tried to impress upon him that they needed the documents they sought. Otherwise, Mr. Meadows said later, lawmakers would be left with no choice but to begin building a case to hold Mr. Rosenstein in contempt of Congress or to try to impeach him.
Advertisement
Contempt is obviously still on the horizon, Mr. Meadows said, if there is not a substantial change.
Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Kitty Bennett contributed research.
