['the-new-york-times', '133', 'Choe Sang-Hun', 'Will Kim Jong-un Trade His Nuclear Arsenal to Rebuild Economy?', 'North Korea\xe2\x80\x99s leader has made economic growth the nation\xe2\x80\x99s new top priority. But he appears intent on entering talks as an established nuclear power.', 'https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/21/world/asia/north-korea-kim-jong-un-nuclear-tests.html', 'https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/22/world/22nkorea-1/22nkorea-1-facebookJumbo.jpg', '2018-04-21T16:29:17Z']
Continue reading the main story
Despite lingering doubts about his nations ability to strike the continental United States with a nuclear weapon, Mr. Kim appeared to be making clear he intends to enter negotiations with Washington the way the Soviets did decades ago, as an established nuclear power.
The big question is whether he will relinquish his nuclear weapons.
South Korean policymakers argue that Mr. Kim is signaling a willingness to dismantle his nuclear arsenal for the right incentives, including economic aid, a peace treaty and other security guarantees from Washington  measures he needs to rebuild the Norths economy.
Photo
Mr. Kim is willing to discuss denuclearizing his country if provided with the right incentives, according to South Korean policymakers. Credit Korean Central News Agency
He is seeking the kind of rapid economic growth seen in China, said Lee Jong-seok, a former unification minister of South Korea. The North Korea he envisions is different from his fathers North Korea.
Mr. Lee also noted: We have looked only on the nuclear side of Kim Jong-uns rule, trying hard not to look at the other side. He is ready to bargain away nuclear weapons for the sake of economic development. If he were content with just feeding his people three meals a day, he would not give up his nuclear weapons.
Cheong Seong-chang, a senior North Korea expert at the Sejong Institute, a research think tank in South Korea, said Mr. Kims announcement would further raise his peoples expectation for economic improvement.
But North Korea has long said that its nuclear weapons are not bargaining chips, and Mr. Kim himself has called them a treasured sword of justice and a powerful deterrent firmly safeguarding his peoples rights to existence.
Lee Sung-yoon, a Korea expert at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, called Mr. Kims decision just a replay of an old North Korean tactic  trying to confuse enemies with dramatic gestures in an attempt to win concessions, without ever intending to give up nuclear weapons.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
History repeats itself as farce, he said, adding: Kim Jong-uns ploys are unoriginal and rather lazy.
American officials say they have been repeatedly cheated by the North in previous talks on denuclearization. A deal in 1994 eventually collapsed when the United States accused the North of secretly enriching uranium. Another deal in 2005 fell apart in a dispute over how to verify a nuclear freeze. In 2012, the North launched a long-range rocket after agreeing to a moratorium on missile testing.
Mr. Kims decision to make the economy the nations priority and suspend nuclear tests was unanimously adopted at a Workers Party meeting on Friday. He also pledged to neither use nor proliferate nuclear weapons unless faced with a nuclear threat.
Photo
Farmworkers in Sangwon, North Korea, in 2017. Mr. Kim has said he would not let his people tighten their belt again. Credit Wong Maye-E/Associated Press
Washington, Seoul, Beijing and Tokyo welcomed the move, although they cautioned that the suspension of tests was just one step toward denuclearization. The announcement made no mention of further steps.
Mr. Kim did pledge to create an international environment favorable for the socialist economic construction. Analysts said that will give him political cover for negotiating reductions in his arsenal.
This reads more like an arms-control offer from a nuclear nation than an isolated regime coerced into disarmament, said Adam Mount, a senior fellow at the Washington-based Federation of American Scientists. It is a carefully circumscribed statement. It describes a partial cap of North Koreas nuclear and missile programs but not disarmament. Even under these restrictions, North Korea could continue to expand its capabilities significantly.
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
