['the-new-york-times', '135', 'Steve Eder and Hiroko Tabuchi', 'Scott Pruitt Before the E.P.A.: Fancy Homes, a Shell Company and Friends With Money', 'The E.P.A. chief is under scrutiny for high spending and interactions with lobbyists. Many of the pitfalls he has encountered in Washington have echoes in his past.', 'https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/21/us/politics/scott-pruitt-oklahoma-epa.html', 'https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/22/climate/22REG-PRUITTOK-pruitt/22REG-PRUITTOK-pruitt-facebookJumbo-v2.jpg', '2018-04-21T16:25:31Z']
Continue reading the main story
The mortgage on the Oklahoma City home, the records show, was issued by a local bank that was led by another business associate of Mr. Pruitts, Albert Kelly. Recently barred from working in the finance industry because of a banking violation, Mr. Kelly is now one of Mr. Pruitts top aides at the E.P.A. and runs the agencys Superfund program.
At the E.P.A., Mr. Pruitt is under investigation for allegations of unchecked spending , ethics lapses and other issues, including his interactions with lobbyists. An examination of Mr. Pruitts political career in Oklahoma reveals that many of the pitfalls he has encountered in Washington have echoes in his past.
Continue reading the main story
Photo
Mr. Pruitts home in Oklahoma City when he was a state senator. The house, which had belonged to a lobbyist, was held by a shell company registered to Mr. Pruitts business partner and financed by a bank an associate of his ran. Credit Brett Deering for The New York Times
According to real estate records, the 2003 purchase of the house for $375,000 came at a steep discount of about $100,000 from what Ms. Lindsey had paid a year earlier  a shortfall picked up by her employer, the telecom giant SBC Oklahoma.
SBC, previously known as Southwestern Bell and later as AT&T , had been lobbying lawmakers in the early 2000s on a range of matters, including a deregulation bill that would allow it to raise rates and a separate regulatory effort to reopen a bribery case from a decade earlier. Mr. Pruitt sided with the company on both matters, state records show.
In 2005, the shell company  Capitol House L.L.C.  sold the property for $95,000 more than it had paid. While shell companies are legal, they often obscure the people who have an interest in them, and none of Mr. Pruitts financial disclosure filings in Oklahoma mentioned the company or the proceeds  a potential violation of the states ethics rules.
The Oklahoma City deal, which has not been previously reported, was one of several instances in which Mr. Pruitt appeared to have benefited from his relationships with Mr. Kelly and Mr. Wagner while in state politics.
During his eight years as a Republican state senator, Mr. Pruitt also upgraded his family residence in suburban Tulsa from a small ranch-style home to a lakefront property in a gated community. In addition, he bought a sizable stake in a minor league baseball team, and took a second job at Mr. Wagners corporate law firm. Mr. Kellys bank, SpiritBank, would be there for much of it  providing financing for Mr. Pruitts Tulsa home and his stake in the baseball team, as well as the mortgage for the Oklahoma City house.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Mr. Pruitts interactions with SBC also show that his blurring of lines with lobbyists has roots in his Oklahoma years. One of the issues at the E.P.A. that has gotten Mr. Pruitt in trouble with government watchdogs involved his renting a room in Washington for $50 a night from the wife of an energy lobbyist who has had business in front of the agency.
Lobbyists and others in Oklahoma state politics who encountered Mr. Pruitt recalled him as a tough competitor who always had his eye on a higher office. Some called him a Boy Scout who was stingy with his money, while others said privately that he had exuded a sense of entitlement  that rules did not apply to him.
David Walters, a former Oklahoma governor and Democrat, described Mr. Pruitt as someone who looked out for himself over the needs of constituents, especially during his years as attorney general.
Photo
For those ego-minded politicians, it would be pretty cool to have this house close to the capitol, said Marsha Lindsey, the lobbyist who previously owned the home. Credit Brandon Thibodeaux for The New York Times
I was disappointed to find him operating in a hyperpartisan manner and seemingly representing corporate interests over Oklahoma citizens, Mr. Walters said.
In response to questions submitted by The New York Times about Mr. Pruitts finances in Oklahoma, an E.P.A. spokeswoman said Mr. Pruitts business dealings with Mr. Kelly and Mr. Wagner were ethical and his stake in the shell company was a simple real estate investment.
Mr. Wagner and Mr. Kelly left high-profile positions in law and banking in Oklahoma, to serve in the administration, the spokeswoman said in an email. They are dedicated E.P.A. employees who have earned the respect and admiration of E.P.A. career employees across the country. They serve the country professionally, and transparently  and are committed to ensuring the programs they work on are successful.
Rubbing Shoulders in Oklahoma City
The house on Northeast 17th Street in the historic Lincoln Terrace neighborhood here was built in 1928 and has a grand staircase and an arched doorway. Ms. Lindsey said one of the homes attractions was that it looked out on the white dome of the State Capitol.
Mr. Pruitt stayed in the house for parts of 2004 and 2005, neighbors said. The residence put him within walking distance of his job  legislators worked only part of the year, mainly from February through May  and also near SBC Bricktown Ballpark, which was home to his baseball team, the RedHawks, now known as the Dodgers.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Jim Dunlap, then a Republican leader in the State Senate, said he rented a room from Mr. Pruitt above the garage. He was under the impression that Mr. Pruitt had bought the home as an investment with a group of lawyers, he said.
This was a place where you slept and had dinner, Mr. Dunlap said. It was all above board.
Oklahoma campaign disclosures filed by Mr. Pruitt at the time made no mention of the home purchase or the rental agreement with Mr. Dunlap. Real estate records show that the transfer of ownership from Ms. Lindsey, the lobbyist, was rather complicated and involved multiple steps  none of them with any public reference to Mr. Pruitt, though the E.P.A. spokeswoman confirmed that he was one of five co-owners of the shell company.
Photo
The shell company was registered to Kenneth Wagner, an E.P.A. aide and law school friend of Mr. Pruitts. Credit Maryland Department of Natural Resources
When asked whether such a disclosure would be necessary, the executive director of the Oklahoma Ethics Commission, Ashley Kemp, referred The Times to a 2005 ethics manual. The rules required disclosing every business or entity in which an official held securities valued at $5,000 or more. Securities were defined to include documents that represent a share in a company.
The E.P.A. spokeswoman did not respond to questions about Mr. Pruitts disclosure filings in Oklahoma.
In November 2003, Ms. Lindsey signed the deed of the home over to a relocation company SBC had hired to handle her move and severance. She was reimbursed for close to $475,000, the amount she had paid for the house in 2002, as her contract required, she said.
The next day, the relocation company signed the property over to Jon Jiles, a health care executive who has a range of business interests and made contributions to Mr. Pruitts political campaigns. Records show no mortgage was involved, and Mr. Jiles paid $375,000 in cash.
That December, Mr. Wagner officially registered the Capitol House shell company with the Oklahoma authorities, and Mr. Jiles transferred the deed to the newly formed company. Mr. Jiles was listed as a manager of Capitol House, and Mr. Wagner as the registered agent.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
The following month, SpiritBank, where Mr. Kelly was chief executive, approved a mortgage in the amount of $420,000 in the name of Capital House L.L.C., another spelling of the entity.
Ms. Lindsey, the former lobbyist, said she had been focused on her impending move to Dallas, and had deferred the sale and other arrangements to the companys relocation agent. She said she had known nothing about the involvement of the shell company and did not recall the final sale price. The bottom line is  it is unusual to take a $100,000 loss on the house after being on the market for just a few weeks, she said.
Asked about the drop in price, AT&T said in a statement that two independent firms appraised the house and that its average value came to $390,000. The valuation and sale were handled by the relocation business, the company added.
Photo
The State Capitol in Oklahoma City. Lobbyists and others in state politics recalled Mr. Pruitt as a tough competitor who always had his eye on a higher office. Credit Brett Deering for The New York Times
Mr. Jiles, in an email exchange, said he became involved because Mr. Wagner presented the house as a good deal and a convenient place to stay. He said he had no other business interactions with Mr. Pruitt.
A cash transaction was most likely used because sellers will often sell for less if its a cash deal rather than a finance deal, Mr. Jiles said. And I was likely the one most able to do a cash deal at the time.
In a statement, SpiritBanks chief executive and president, Rick Harper, said the bank was legally prohibited from commenting on specific loans, but added, SpiritBank is confident these loans were made in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
