['the-new-york-times', '136', 'The New York Times', 'Trump Criticizes Times Report About His Longtime Lawyer', 'The report described President Trump\xe2\x80\x99s years of poor treatment of the lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, and concerns that Mr. Cohen will cooperate with the federal officials who are investigating him.', 'https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/21/us/politics/trump-cohen-new-york-times.html', 'https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/22/us/22dc-trumptweet/22dc-trumptweet-facebookJumbo.jpg', '2018-04-21T15:55:53Z']
Trump Criticizes Times Report About His Longtime Lawyer
By EMILY COCHRANE
Continue reading the main story
Photo
President Trump on his phone while departing Mar-a-Lago today. Mr. Trump often assails news organizations over reports he sees as unfavorable. Credit Tom Brenner/The New York Times
WASHINGTON  President Trump on Saturday criticized a report by The New York Times that described his years of poor treatment of his longtime personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, and concerns among the presidents advisers that Mr. Cohen will cooperate with the federal officials who are now investigating him.
Mr. Trump, in a series of tweets on Saturday morning, accused The Times and one of the reporters who wrote the article, Maggie Haberman, of going out of their way to destroy Michael Cohen and his relationship with me in the hope that he will flip. Mr. Trump accused The Times of using non-existent sources, though he did not assert that the article was false.
[Read the story: Michael Cohen Has Said He Would Take a Bullet for Trump. Maybe Not Anymore.  ]
He also said that I dont speak to Ms. Haberman and have nothing to do with her. In fact, she has interviewed th e president twice in the Oval Office and three times by telephone.
Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, said in a statement that the story is filled with named quotes on the record, and everything Maggie has reported from inside the White House has proven true.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Mr. Trump often assails news organizations over reports he sees as unfavorable. While he rarely criticizes reporters by name, it was not the first time that he has singled out Ms. Haberman, who was part of a team that was awarded a Pulitzer Prize this past week for its reports on the Russia investigation. In March, he disputed an article describing his discussions about expanding the legal team that is dealing with the special counsel.
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
