['the-new-york-times', '137', 'Alexander Burns', 'Fearing Chaos, National Democrats Plunge Into Midterm Primary Fights', 'Democratic leaders are intervening aggressively in California, where the state\xe2\x80\x99s unusual voting system could undercut their chances in crowded congressional races.', 'https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/21/us/politics/democrats-house-midterms-california.html', 'https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/22/business/22midterms-jp1/22midterms-3-facebookJumbo.jpg', '2018-04-21T15:32:05Z']
Opt out or contact us anytime
Any decision to get involved in these races is toward that goal and based on intelligence from the ground in California, extensive data and partnerships with as many local allies as possible, Ms. Kelly said.
In the 39th District, Democrats went beyond prodding underdogs like Ms. Tran, 52, to stand down. Mr. Thorburn said the D.C.C.C. presented him with polling that suggested attacks on his finances and business record would be damaging in the general election  data Mr. Thorburn dismissed out of hand. He said the committee clearly indicated its preference for Mr. Cisneros.
Mr. Thorburn, 74, is now the most unsettling rival for Mr. Cisneros and national Democrats, pairing a pointed ideological message with a personal fortune to spend on advertising. Deriding Mr. Cisneros as a wishy-washy newcomer to the party, Mr. Thorburn said he would strike back hard if the committee were to attack him, as it did Ms. Moser.
Im much more of a fighter than the national party, Mr. Thorburn said, warning: If they do something like they did in Texas, we would come back guns blazing.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Mr. Cisneros has won over important state groups, including the muscular California Labor Federation. But his campaign office, at a strip mall in Brea, about 30 miles southeast of Los Angeles, showcases his national allies: One wall boasts an enormous sign from the gun-control group Giffords, which supports him, while another displays photographs of Mr. Cisneros with Barack and Michelle Obama.
Photo
Gil Cisneros, a Navy veteran and lottery winner who earned the backing of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee on Wednesday over rival Democrats. Credit Rozette Rago for The New York Times
Mr. Cisneros, a soft-spoken 47-year-old who became a philanthropist and Democratic donor after winning the California lottery in 2010, said his unlikely biography was at the core of his message, along with issues like gun violence and health care. He said his views on those subjects had been consistent, though his party registration had changed. From the beginning, Mr. Cisneros said, its always been about getting my story out.
Interviews with voters in the Republican-held district revealed why the race is so promising and tumultuous for Democrats. A labyrinth of highways and shopping centers and residential developments, the district has shifted in recent years as its Latino and Asian-American communities have grown. But a dozen voters there said they were not following the race or remained undecided.
At a shopping mall in Fullerton, a hospital worker named Lynn  who declined to give her surname because she did not want to be identified at work  said she wanted to repudiate Republicans but had not picked an alternative. An Asian-American woman in her 40s, she said she was alarmed by President Trumps environmental policies and what she described as an outpouring of overt bigotry.
Its not because I want a Democrat  I just dont want a Republican, she said. Ever since you-know-who became president, people are really racist and its really, really obvious.
Some voters sounded unlikely to take their cues from national parties. Outside a Fullerton coffee shop where Mr. Jammal was greeting voters, Adam De Leon said he was suspicious of the candidates using personal wealth to sway the race. Mr. De Leon, 72, said he favored Mr. Jammal, 36, because of his government experience.
What does it tell you when people spend millions of dollars to get into a position that pays maybe $140,000 a year? Mr. De Leon said, somewhat underestimating the $174,000 congressional salary. Its all about power and connections.
The Republican field is in flux, too. Young Kim, a longtime aide to Mr. Royce, is the front-runner but has several candidates challenging her from the right. With Republicans in Washington focused on defending beleaguered incumbents, they have been less intent than Democrats on shaping open primaries.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
For Democrats, that project extends beyond California: On the same day the D.C.C.C. endorsed Mr. Cisneros, it also boosted candidates in New York and Arkansas who face contested primaries. In New York, the committee enlisted Juanita Perez Williams, a former candidate for mayor of Syracuse, to challenge Representative John Katko this month, though a lower-profile Democrat was already running with the support of local party leaders.
That kind of big-footing may be trickier in California. Mr. Chen, the Democrat who opted out of the 39th District race, said the party still faces a precarious situation there. He said he had decided against running after conducting a poll that showed him neck and neck with Mr. Cisneros and Mr. Thorburn  but with Democratic voters fragmented enough to create an all-Republican general election.
He predicted none of the remaining Democrats would follow his lead and get out.
If youve never been involved in the party before and you just ran because you want to run, then you dont really have those considerations, Mr. Chen said. They are new to this. They dont have bridges to burn.
