['crypto-coins-news', '138', 'NOVALUE', 'Free Crypto Trading App Robinhood Launches in Colorado with Bitcoin, Ethereum', 'The competitive landscape for cryptocurrencies is heating up in the United States. Zero-commission startup exchange Robinhood just announced on Twitter its expansion into Colorado.', 'https://www.ccn.com/robinhood-takes-more-turf-expands-into-colorado/', 'https://www.ccn.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/Colorado-sign.jpg', '2018-04-20T22:24:41Z']
Free Crypto Trading App Robinhood Launches in Colorado with Bitcoin, Ethereum
Advertisement
Join our community of 10 000 traders on Hacked.com for just $39 per month.
The competitive landscape for cryptocurrencies is heating up in the United States. Zero-commission startup exchange Robinhood just announced on Twitter its expansion into Colorado. The trading platform unveiled commision-free trading for leading cryptocurrencies bitcoin and Ethereum in the western state. In addition to cryptocurrencies, the Palo Alto, Calif.-based trading platform also supports stocks, ETFs and options.
Colorado, which is known for its Rocky Mountain peaks andblockchain-friendly legislation, joins a handful of states that extends to California, Massachusetts, Missouri and Montana, all of which Robinhood addedin early April as part of a state-by-state rollout that is moving along.
Robinhood Crypto is coming to a Rocky Mountain near you! Commission-free Bitcoin (BTC) and Ethereum (ETH) trading is now rolled out and available to investors in Colorado. pic.twitter.com/nGfZKrcvj4
 Robinhood (@RobinhoodApp) April 20, 2018
The announcement set off a flurry of responses on Twitter, ranging from requests for the trading platform to add Litecoin to pleas to expand into other states, such as Texas and Florida, to name a couple. Robinhood says you can move up the list by inviting friends to join the exchange. But some Twitter followers in the states where Robinhood Crypto has been rolled out say they have yet to gain access to the trading platform and are stuck on a waiting list.
On the Map and on the Radar
The more of a foothold that the zero-fee exchange gains in the United States, the more market share it can take from the likes of Coinbase/GDAX or Gemini  andthe more likely its going to land on the radar of regulators.
In New York, CCN recently reported thatNew York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman in a bid for greatertransparency has contacted morethana dozen cryptocurrency exchangeswithinformation requests. The development was enough to send the prices of leading cryptocurrencies lower for a while, but theyve since rebounded.
Meanwhile, digital assets exchange Gemini, which is run by the Winklevoss twins, is prepared tocomply . But others like Kraken find the request insulting. Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss are also spearheading a self-regulatory group for best practices in the cryptocurrencies industry.
Robinhoods Rise
Robinhood hasnt indicated whether it will support more altcoins beyond bitcoin and Ethereum. It does offer market data for a number of altcoins, however. The exchange, which is popular among millennials, is estimated to be worth as much as $5.6 billion on the heels of its latest funding round with DST Global compared to about $1 billion in 2017 and reportedly surpassing the valuation of its US rival Coinbase.
While Robinhood offers zero-fee cryptocurrency trading, it also offers a premium account dubbed Robinhood Gold that has a monthly flat rate attached and higher deposit limits.
Featured image from Shutterstock.
