['the-verge', '141', 'Tasha Robinson', 'Netflix\xe2\x80\x99s Cargo has a few new ideas for the zombie genre', 'Yolanda Ramke and Ben Howling\xe2\x80\x99s low-key horror film, an expanded version of their striking 2013 short, stars Martin Freeman and Susie Porter as parents trying to shepherd a baby through an outbreak of living dead. The Netflix film has some memorable moments, \xe2\x80\xa6', 'https://www.theverge.com/2018/4/21/17266022/netflix-cargo-review-martin-freeman-zombie-outback-movie-tribeca-2018', 'https://cdn.vox-cdn.com/thumbor/_1r6oI-gJjQ41k3WIbLAupGZK_8=/16x0:1651x856/fit-in/1200x630/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/10693463/Cargo_015.JPG', '2018-04-21T19:00:02Z']
Netflixs Cargo has a few new ideas for the zombie genre
But maybe not enough to justify its expansion from a killer short to a full-length feature
Email
Courtesy of Netflix
Welcome to Cheat Sheet, our brief breakdown-style reviews of festival films, VR previews, and other special event releases. This review comes from the 2018 Tribeca Film Festival.
Its difficult to find funding, distribution, or even an audience for short films these days. Anyone can shoot a short and put it up online, and the competition from amateurs and free content is brisk enough to make any professional think twice about making a short for any reason except inspiration or fun. But for first-time filmmakers proving their talents, a well-received short film can open some doors and make funding for a feature easier to find. It worked for Neill Blomkamp, whose debut District 9 started as a short called Alive In Joburg . It worked for Damien Chazelle, who initially made Whiplash as a short proof-of-concept film , complete with J.K. Simmons playing the role that would win him a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for the feature-length version of the story. More recently, it worked for the directors of Prospect, which started out as a short film and recently became a terrific full-length thats still touring festivals.
But the downside to turning a well-received short into a feature is that if the short has enough pass-around value to go viral online, viewers who eventually see the feature-length version may compare the two unfavorably. Thats a problem for Yolanda Ramke and Ben Howlings new Netflix movie Cargo, a zombie feature that expands on their hit 2013 short of the same name . The short version is memorable, effective, and tremendously efficient, telling an emotional little horror story in just over seven minutes, credits included. The 105-minute feature version eventually arrives at a similar conclusion, but the extra material doesnt necessarily add that much to the story. For people whove seen the short, the long version can feel like its just marking time, stretching out the narrative until its time for the familiar punch. (So be warned, the short is linked above, but watching it will basically spoil the full-length movie.)
Whats the genre?
Zombie survival horror. The film has a few new twists on the genre  among other things, it doesnt feel particularly political, or like a commentary on humanity. Inevitably, it has a character whos more of a monster than the zombies are, but that isnt specifically the point of the story .
Whats it about?
Andy (Martin Freeman) and Kay (Susie Porter) are a couple navigating a zombie outbreak in the Australian interior. As the film opens, theyve clearly been through some trauma, but theyve commandeered a houseboat where theyre keeping their infant daughter Rosie safe. They dont agree about where to go next  Andy wants to stick to the river and head for a military base, Kay points out that theyre out of supplies and need to head overland to restock  but everything about their relationship suggests quiet devotion and dedication. Then a series of incidents leaves Andy traveling alone overland with Rosie strapped to his back, trying to dodge infected attackers and find a safe haven in spite of a ticking clock.
Meanwhile, a young Aboriginal woman named Thoomi (Simone Landers) is in the opposite position, trying to protect her infected father, who she can mostly control by feeding him wildlife, keeping him gagged, and keeping a close watch on him. But her community is actively hunting and eliminating the zombies, so shes isolated herself from them In the early going of Cargo, the story periodically finds her for short blinks, tracking what shes up to. Then she and Andy start crossing each others paths, and changing each others story.
Whats it really about?
Human connection. In this story, theyre mostly of the familial kind, and mostly about the responsibility spouses owe each other, or children and parents owe each other. But somewhat inevitably for a zombie story, Cargo becomes a movie about found family, and how it can be poisonous or crucial, depending on the people involved and their willingness to harm or help each other to further their own goals.
Courtesy of Netflix
Is it good?
At this point, there have been so many zombie stories that one of the primary markers of quality in any new canon entry is whether it has anything new to say, or finds any new spins on the genre. Ramke, who scripted both the short and the feature, has a few fresh ideas. For one, she doesnt give her zombies a name  Andy and Kay dont even refer to the walking-dead issue, they just talk practical strategies, which feels like something parents might do out of instinct, and also feels a lot more natural than trading exposition. For another, Ramkes zombies seek dark places to hibernate, which often includes literally burying their heads in the dirt to shut out the light. For a third, the stages of this particular outbreak include producing an immense amount of resinous, amber-colored goop from the eyes and mouth, which saves a lot of rotting-face makeup effects, while still producing a startling and distinctive look.
But these are largely cosmetic effects. (In the case of the face-goop, literally so.) And a great deal of Cargo is extremely familiar  dodging the shambling undead, dealing with bites and the progression of the disease, watching other people with a wary mixture of need and distrust. A more significant difference is how much time Cargo spends with people who are calmly contemplating their own suicide, and sometimes carrying it out. In Ramkes world, the Australian government is still active enough to bombard the outback with infection kits, which include wrist restraints, a bite guard, a map of known infected areas, a simple watch with a 48-hour countdown (from first bite to full-blown monsterism) and a simple, effective suicide device. Given how many zombie stories are basically elaborate wish-fulfillment video games, about blowing away targets, hoarding supplies, and finding a safe spot, Cargos quiet acknowledgement that suicide might be a kind option for the infected feels revelatory and even dangerous.
And the film gets plenty of pathos out of Andys relationship with Rosie, a generally sweet and tractable kid whos too young to understand any of whats going on, but not too young to respond warmly to displays of affection. (Four different babies played Rosie, so its impossible for a casual viewer to know which ones in a given scene, but Ramke and Howling capture a couple of moments between Andy and Rosie that are downright magical, all the more so for knowing theyre spontaneous and undirected. Much as John Krasinskis recent horror hit A Quiet Place draws on the profound vulnerability of a newborn in a monster-filled world, Cargo makes it constantly clear that Rosies life hangs on Andys choices, in a situation where those choices are vanishingly few.
Freeman isnt the most emotionally expressive actor out there. He has a certain range, and projects from The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy to The Office to Peter Jacksons Hobbit trilogy to Black Panther have made use of his notable talent for playing brittle, fussy, endlessly put-upon characters. But while hes solid at expressing shock and concern, he tends to bring across most other emotions with a tight, distant smile or mild frown that expresses a layer of resignation above everything else he might be feeling. That approach mostly actually works well here, as he plays a man whos tamped down all his emotional responses as he tries to project confidence and cheeriness for his family.
But occasionally, it doesnt seem like enough. Cargos biggest flaw is that it feels too even-keeled and mild to give viewers the proper sense of alarm or desperation. And to some degree, that feels like an artifact of it coming out of a short film that covered the most necessary bases of the story. The directors spend long stretches of Cargo on characters tramping around the outback, or surveying their surroundings, or otherwise standing still. Andy meets characters who dont add much to the story, or spends too much time engaged with crucial characters who dont express much nuance. The pacing is meant to be quiet and thoughtful, but that means it sometimes drags. Its easy to feel that the directors are going for a sort of elegiac Australian end-of-the-world story like On The Beach, or a poetic outback story like Walkabout, but the tone doesnt provide the sense of urgency the story is meant to have.
And Thoomi and her side story do add to the narrative, but not everything they add is positive. She seems to live in a parallel world that has nothing to do with Andys understanding of reality, and the mild sense of magical realism her people bring to the story sometimes feels a bit suspect, like yet another case of treating native tribes as mystics and noble savages. The presence of 40-year Australian film stalwart David Gulpilil as the clever man of Thoomis tribe is a grounding element, but hes not really allowed to be a character, so much as he is a symbol. Thoomi and Andy become important to each other, but neither really understands or connects with the other in any but the shallowest ways, and the way she feels like a plot device more than an integral part of the story is a significant flaw. Thats the problem with turning a strong short into an entire feature  not every element is going to seem necessary to the new version, since it wasnt necessary for the old one. Possibly everyone is better off just picking one version or the other to watch, and sticking with that.
What should it be rated?
Theres certainly blood and gore, but its fairly brief and toned-down for a zombie movie. PG-13 at worst.
How can I actually watch it?
Cargo will launch on Netflix on May 18th in America.
Next Up In Culture
