['entertainment-weekly', '153', 'Christian Holub', "<em>Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.</em> recap: 'All Roads Lead...'", '', 'http://ew.com/recap/agents-of-shield-season-5-episode-18/', 'https://ewedit.files.wordpress.com/2018/04/148781_1270.jpg?crop=0px%2C0px%2C2700px%2C1417.5px&resize=1200%2C630', '2018-04-21T02:00:27Z']
ActionAdventure
We gave it a B
Poor Ruby Hale. Dove Camerons character was a vision of a superpowered child soldier, someone who had been raised apart from civilization by a psychotic supervillain of a mother and thus came to believe passionately in Hydras ideals of violence and conquering without ever taking stock of what those things actually felt like. Well, now she knows.
But first, coming out of last weeks cliffhanger, we see Talbot is a man on a mission, and that mission is to kidnap Robin Hinton. With Hydras commands inside his head, Talbot infiltrates Robins room and examines her drawings. He notices a lot of crimson crayon and makes a Redrum reference, which is good news because any nod to The Shining is a good way to hook me (this is the main reason I enjoyed Ready Player One). When Robin cant explain the drawings, Talbot knocks out her mother and kidnaps the girl. Robin reacts in characteristic fashion when Talbot informs her of his kidnapping intentions: I know.
Luckily, Coulson and Mack soon notice a glitch in the video feeds for Robins room. When they go to investigate, Coulson realizes that Talbots six months in Hydra prison really did a number on him. As a friend, Coulson doesnt want to hurt Talbot, but hes also not afraid of using the programming against him. Using his knowledge of Hydra commands, Coulson gets Talbot to surrender, freeing Robin.
Speaking of Coulson and Mack, one thing Im enjoying about these recent episodes is the focus on character relationships. Theres a particularly funny moment this week when Deke asks Coulson and Mack for advice about his Daisy crush  but considering Macks last interaction with his girlfriend was her locking him in a cell and Coulsons less-than-ideal reaction to Mays love confession, they dont have many romantic tips to give. Meanwhile, FitzSimmons are currently repairing the Gravitonium infuser (and thus endangering the world) in order to safeguard each other from Ruby. As they work, FitzSimmons continue to warn Ruby that the operation isnt a good idea, that they still dont know enough about Gravitonium to understand what the effects will be. Raised to be a confident assassin by her mother, Ruby ignores them and goes through with the procedure  much to her later chagrin. (Recap continues on next page)
Next ( 1 of 2 )
