['fortune', '180', 'NOVALUE', "The World's 50 Greatest Leaders", 'Our annual list of the thinkers, speakers, and doers who are stepping up to meet today\xe2\x80\x99s challenges.', 'http://fortune.com/longform/worlds-greatest-leaders-2018/', 'https://fortunedotcom.files.wordpress.com/2018/04/int05_opener1.jpg', '2018-04-19T10:30:02Z']
45. Kelly Chibale Scientist, South Africa
46. Ana Botn Group executive  chairman, Banco Santander
48. Ridwan Kamil Mayor, Bandung, Indonesia
49. Amy Gutmann President, University of Pennsylvania
50. Ed Bastian CEO, Delta Air Lines
The fiercest resisters of unbundling are national leaders. They have little to gain and much to lose by leading a smaller country. Yet they may have no choice, eventually. Many services that once were the province of governmentstelecom, utilities, even satellite launcheshave become commoditized, available on the open market. Spains Catalonians, for example, think they dont need Madrid, and they may well be right.
The unbundling trend is especially powerful because its driven from the bottom up as well as from the top down. Many people are eager to be free of institutions. The desire to be self-sustaining, to be the boss, is a psychological reality, says Parag Khanna, a strategy consultant who sees devolution as a powerful force in politics and the economy. The entrepreneurialism lurking in many souls can express itself more easily than ever.
Unbundling poses a quandary for leaders: Doing whats best for the people they lead may result in leading fewer of them. But that fear reflects a too-narrow view of leadership, which arises not from authority but from inspiration. On paper, Merck CEO Kenneth Frazier (No. 5) leads 69,000 employees. But when he took what he called a stand against intolerance and extremism after the violence in Charlottesville, Va., last summer, resigning from President Trumps manufacturing council to protest Trumps equivocating comments on the violence, he became a leader to millions.
The age of unbundling is disorienting. But leadership is what you make of it, as these 50 great leaders teach us. Geoff Colvin
Head writers: Erika Fry, Jonathan Chew, and Matt Heimer
Writers: Kristen Bellstrom, Geoff Colvin, Rachel King, Kirsten Korosec, Beth Kowitt, Adam Lashinsky, Clifton Leaf, Anne VanderMey, Phil Wahba, Jen Wieczner, Valentina Zarya, and Claire Zillman
Guest Contributors: Brian Finlay, The Stimson Center; Phyllis Heydt, Office of the UN Secretary-Generals Special Envoy for Health; Raj Panjabi, Last Mile Health; Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, Yale School of Management
Emma Gonzlez and other students at the March for Our Lives in Washington, D.C.
Kevin MazurGetty Images for March For Our Lives
1. The Students
Marjory Stoneman Douglas and other schools
If 2018 becomes the year that the United States finally begins to tackle its disease of gun violencean epidemic that steals nearly 100 American lives every dayit will be due not to the good sense of elected officials, but rather to the courage, tenacity, and sheer eloquence of students like Emma Gonzlez, who bore witness to the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shootings with an unforgettable speech, and long moment of silence, at the March for Our Lives rally in Washington, D.C..
It will be due to 11th-graders like Cameron Kasky, who along with Stoneman Douglas classmates Jaclyn Corin and Alex Wind launched the #NeverAgain crusade and helped plan the historic rally in Washington, which was mirrored by gatherings around the world. It will be due to 11-year-olds like Naomi Wadler, who reminded millions of people on that same day of something that should never have needed a reminder: that young African-Americans who die in such overwhelming numbers from gun violence arent simply statistics but instead vibrant lives full of potential. It will be due to 21-year-olds like Columbia student Nza-Ari Khepra, who cofounded two efforts to bring attention to gun violenceProject Orange Tree and the Wear Orange Campaignwhich she hopes will inspire other young people to engage in a conversation about this scourge.
To read more about these and many other young activists, click here .
Melinda and Bill Gates (at left) meet with participants in a malaria vaccine trial in Tanzania.
Frederic CourbetBill & Melinda Gates Foundation
2. Bill and Melinda Gates
Cofounders, Gates Foundation
The scourge of malaria has a way of rising from the mat just when science seems to have knocked it out. Fortunately, the disease has a tenacious foe in the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. As the global rate of infection has crept upward again in recent years, the Gateses have committed resources to the Innovative Vector Control Consortium (IVCC), a public-private partnership devoted to developing better insecticides. The couple have also taken an increasingly impassioned stand for gender equity; independent of the foundation, Melinda is now a key financial partner in Aspect Ventures, an investment fund focused on combating sexual discrimination in tech.
Tarana Burke (center) with activists at a Take Back the Workplace Rally in Los Angeles.
Chelsea GuglielminoFilmMagic
3. The #MeToo Movement
Activist Tarana Burke (center) began using the phrase Me Too in 2006 to describe the pervasiveness of sexual abuse. Today, theres no single face or leader of the #MeToo movementin large part because more people than ever know that harassment in the workplace is universal. The women who have come forward to tell their stories have ousted powerful executives such as Harvey Weinstein, Steve Wynn, and Michael Ferro (see Fortunes feature on Ferros departure from Tronc ). The ensuing reckoning is forcing leaders in every industry, not just media and entertainment, to change their way of thinking.
Maurizio GambariniPicture-Alliance/DPA/AP
4. Moon Jae-in
President, South Korea
Moon took office last May under inauspicious circumstanceshis predecessor was impeached for corruption. Yet Moon speedily enacted reforms aimed at creating a fairer economy, such as boosting the minimum wage, expanding health coverage, and addressing the influence of the countrys chaebol conglomerates. Moon has been pivotal in arranging talks between President Trump and North Koreas Kim Jong-Un, a possible prelude to inter-Korean reconciliation.
Andrew HarrerBloomberg via Getty Images
5. Kenneth Frazier
CEO, Merck
Its easy to forget that last August, after President Trumps tepid response to a white nationalist rally that turned violent, outcry from the business community was not immediate. Frazier took a risk by becoming the first of Trumps advisers to speak out and step down, enabling others to follow suit. His success at Merck only bolsters his credibility: Since he took over in 2011, the pharma giant has made strides in treating several cancers, while its stock beat the S&P 500.
ILLUSTRATION BY VIKTOR MILLER GAUSA
6. Scott Gottlieb
FDA commissioner
Its hard to imagine a federal agency that touches more of our livesand in more personal waysthan the Food and Drug Administration. It reaches in through our medicine cabinets, regulating everything from our morning pills to makeupand through our kitchen cupboards, ensuring the safety of most of what we ingest each day, even bottled water. Its purview extends from pet food to microwave ovens to vaccines, pacemakers, and bedpans. And in the year since he has been FDA commissioner, Scott Gottlieb has appeared to have had a direct hand in all of it. Gottlieb, a physician and former VC who served as a deputy commissioner in the administration of President George W. Bush, has earned broad kudos from a constituency that is often beset by bitter argument. He has pushed for creative ways to slow the skyrocketing rise of medicine prices (in part by making it easier for generics to compete), helped speed the development of digital health technologies through clearer regulatory guidance, embraced more efficient clinical trial designs, and aggressively tried to reduce cigarette smoking and contain Americas raging opioid epidemic through sharp policy moves. An avid (perhaps even obsessive) tweeter, Gottlieb has gotten credit for being transparent about FDA stepsand, more important, for using his bully pulpit without being a bully.
ILLUSTRATION BY PAUL RYDING
7. Margarethe Vestager
Commissioner for Competition, European Union
Vestager didnt need the benefit of hindsight. Long before the outrage at Facebooks Cambridge Analytica scandal, and before fake news was even a thing, the Danish-born EU commissioner was thoughtfully and assiduously regulating Big Tech. Amazon , Google , and their ilk may be disruptive, they may even be changing the world, but Vestageran iPhone user who is active on Twitterhas treated the companies as subject to the same rules as any other. She slapped Apple with a $14.5 billion tax bill in 2016 after declaring its tax benefits in Ireland illegalTim Cook lost his cool and called it total political crapand fined Alphabet $2.7 billion for antitrust violations in 2017. Politicians and regulators worldwidefrom India to Brazil to, yes, the U.S.are now following her lead.
Photograph by Marco Grob
8. Larry Fink
CEO, BlackRock
As leader of the worlds biggest asset manager, overseeing $6.28 trillion, Fink knows how to put his money where his mouth is. In his annual missive to CEOs in January, the BlackRock cofounder called for each company to not just perform financially but also show how it makes a positive contribution to society. Finks mandate mirrors the philosophy that has lately driven BlackRocks strategywhich is that shareholders will lose in the long run if companies ignore broader social concerns today. A longtime advocate for tax reform, Fink also warned companies to figure out what theyre going to do with their tax windfalls to create long-term valuebefore activist investors force their hand. But the most potent example of how BlackRock is practicing its principles came after Februarys school shooting in Parkland, Fla. Not only did BlackRock seek answers on violence prevention measures by gun retailers and manufacturers it ownsseveral of which subsequently changed their policiesbut in April it unveiled new funds that allow investors to divest from those stocks entirely. As Fink told CEOs, Society is demanding that companies, both public and private, serve a social purpose.
Gen. Joseph Dunford (in eyeglasses) with troops at Fort Greely in Alaska.
Po1 Dominique A. PineiroPlanet Pix via ZUMA Wire
9. Gen. Joseph Dunford
Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
President Trumps national security staff has endured unusually high turnoverwhich makes Dunfords continuity at the Joint Chiefs of Staff all the more important. The career Marine previously served as commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan; that experience makes him a valuable resource for a President eager to project strength without entangling U.S. forces too deeply in commitments abroad. Dunford has also helped shape sharp-turn directives from the White House into pragmatic policyincluding, recently, converting a mandate to get the military more involved in providing security on the Mexican border into a strategic deployment of National Guard troops.
Qilai ShenBloomberg via Getty Images
10. Liu He
Vice Premier, China
President Xi Jinping faces two extremely high-stakes economic challenges: guiding the countrys evolution from an industrial economy to a consumer one and avoiding a trade war with the U.S. Hell rely heavily on Liu, a confidant who boasts connections in the international financial community that Xi lacks. Diplomats and traders already see Lius influence in the deftly conciliatory language China has adopted in recent tariff disputes with the White House.
GM CEO Mary Barra at a Detroit auto show this January.
Andrew HarrerBloomberg via Getty Images
11. Mary Barra
CEO, General Motors
No woman on earth runs a bigger company, in revenue terms, than Barra. And in an era in which automotive startups capture all the headlines, 109-year-old GM has quietly, reliably been producing crowd-pleasing, mass-market, all-electric cars. GM beat Teslas Model 3 to market with the Chevrolet Bolt EVand has been selling it steadily since then. Barra has revamped GMs corporate culture following a scandal involving fatal ignition defects, and is racing into the future with major acquisitions in autonomous driving. Coming up next year? A Chevy Bolt without a steering wheel.
Illustration by HelloVon
12. Nick Saban
Football coach, University of Alabama
Late on a Monday night in early January, the University of Alabamas quarterback, 19-year-old true freshman Tua Tagovailoa, threw a game-winning, 41-yard laser beam of a touchdown pass to give the Crimson Tide a 2623 victory in the College Football Playoff. The win gave Alabama head coach Nick Saban his fifth national title in nine years at Alabama. Add an earlier one he won at LSU in 2003, and his six rings match Alabama legend Paul Bear Bryant for the most football championships by a college coach in the so-called poll era, dating back to 1936. Now that hes succeeded to a historic degree, Saban is grappling with the sports version of what business guru Clayton Christensen famously dubbed the Innovators Dilemmathe fact that success today makes it hard to keep the edge you need to win in the future. But if the last few years are any indication, the grappling is going pretty well.
Ed AlcockEyevine/Redux
13. Emmanuel Macron
President, France
Frances 2017 elections left Macrons newly minted La Rpublique en Marche Party with a steamroller-strong parliamentary majority. With his victory, Macron, 40, supplanted Germanys Angela Merkel as Europes strongest bulwark against xenophobic populism. Now, his legacy will hinge on whether he can reform Frances sclerotic economy. So far he has trimmed wealth taxes and made it easier for employers to hire and fire workersearning praise and protest in return.
Photograph by Spencer Lowell
14. Tim Cook
CEO, Apple
Think of Cooks job as a $900 billion balancing act. After nearly seven years as CEO, he has proved to be far more than a transitional figurehead after Steve Jobs. Cook has maintained Apple as a cash-generating machine without sacrificing innovation. He engages gingerly with Chinas rights-challenged government, even as he leads Apples pro-privacy crusade. Should Apple ever be worth $1 trillion, his place in the leadership pantheon will be forever secure.
Courtesy of Nike
15. Serena Williams
Athlete
Williams spent much of 2017 off the court while pregnant with her first child. But taking a break from tennis didnt stop her from leading. After complications with her pregnancy, she focused a spotlight on womens health issuesincluding the fact that maternal mortality rates for African-Americans are three times as high as those for white women.
Romauld MeigneuxSIPA via AP
16. Isabelle Kocher
CEO, Engie
In just two years, Kocher has pulled Engie, the energy giant formerly known as GDF Suez, into the future. The legacy oil and gas company now focuses on renewables and decarbonization; it has sold $15 billion worth of dirty assets and reinvested in cleaner ones. Kocher, the only woman CEO among Frances CAC 40 companies, recently boosted Engies dividend and reported its return to profitability after a two-year absence.
Photograph by Brad Wenner
17. Katie Bethell
Executive director, PL+US
So far in 2018, a phalanx of huge employersincluding Walmart , Starbucks , and CVShas expanded paid family-leave benefits, strengthening the financial safety net for some 2.8 million blue-collar workers. Most companies cited tax cuts and a strong economy as their motivators, but activists saw another force at work: the grass-roots organizing of 38-year-old Bethell and PL+US, the nonprofit she founded in 2016.
ILLUSTRATION BY JACK HUGHES
18. Ryan Coogler
Film director
This is the year that catapulted Coogler from Sundance sweetheart to box-office boss, thanks to the triumphant success of Black Panther. The superhero pic is the 33rd film in U.S. history to surpass $1 billion in salesand the first with a predominantly black cast to do so. (Its also the highest-grossing film ever directed by an African-American.) Coogler helped persuade studio execs to embrace a movie whose Afrocentric story and aesthetic departed from formulas, proving that theres not just an appetite for diverse storytellingtheres a hunger for it. (Read Fortunes Q&A with Coogler .)
Paul YeungBloomberg via Getty Images
19. Huateng Pony Ma
CEO, Tencent
Superlatives attach themselves to Pony Ma and Tencent, the Chinese technology juggernaut the 46-year-old entrepreneur cofounded and leads as CEO. Ma is Chinas richest man, with a net worth north of $40 billion. His companys valuation hovers near the half-a-trillion-dollar mark. And Tencents WeChat messaging service recently crossed the 1-billion-account threshold, cementing its role as the electronic thread that stitches together the fabric of digital China. So central is WeChat to how Chinese people communicate that many believe it has become a more important ingredient to a smartphone than its operating systemenabling Tencent to occupy a powerful commercial and technological position without having to physically make phones.
A soft-spoken engineer, Ma is less well known in the West than the outspoken former-English-teacher leader of Alibaba, Jack Ma, who is no relation. Yet Pony Mas influence has begun to be felt as much globally as it already is in China. Tencent has been on an investment tear, pumping billions of dollars into the likes of Snapchat owner Snap, Tesla, and countless startups. Closer to home, WeChat Paymoney zapped via WeChatvies with Alibaba for payment dominance in a smartphone-crazed country.
Pradeep GaurMint via Getty Images
20. Indira Jaising
Founder, Lawyers Collective
When the poorest in India need a voice, they find one in Jaising, a lawyer who has dedicated her life to battling injustice. Jaising has fought on behalf of victims of the 1984 Bhopal gas disaster, helped Syrian Christian women in India win property rights equal to their male counterparts, and helped draft Indias first domestic violence law. Her work has recently led her to Myanmar, where she was appointed by the UN to lead an investigation into the persecution of Rohingya Muslims.
ILLUSTRATION BY VIKTOR MILLER GAUSA
21. Marc Benioff
CEO, Salesforce
Some leaders are sui generis. Benioff, the quirky, opinionated, visionary, and demanding founder and CEO of Salesforce, is one of them. The corporate world hasnt quite seen the likes of him before. He pushes product with zany zeal: Parties, rock bands, animatronic mascots, and candy emblazoned with his companys logo all are part of his repertoire. So are his causes: gender parity in compensation, progressive politics, mindful work environments, corporate philanthropy, and a sense of companywide family, or Ohana. None of this would matter if Benioff didnt also have a knack for repeatedly leading his company to its next act. He saw early on that business software buyers would use online programs rather than storing them in their own data centers. He experimented with social tools aimed at consumers and quickly realized businesses would use them too. And most recently Benioff recognizedand has invested aggressively inartificial intelligence as the next critical business tool.
Aly Raisman confronts former USA Gymnastics doctor and convicted abuser Larry Nassar at his sentencing hearing in January.
Brendan McDermidReuters
22. The Gymnasts and Their Allies
When the sentencing trial of Larry Nassar began, few people knew the former USA Gymnastics doctors name, much less the details of his crimes. Then, the young women he sexually assaultedmore than 150 of themtold their stories. Their seven days of harrowing testimony shook the world of sports and beyond. Nassar was sentenced to up to 175 years in prison. The president of Michigan State University, Nassars former employer, resigned, as did the board of USA Gymnastics and the CEO of the U.S. Olympic Committee. As Olympian Aly Raisman said, We are here, we have our voices, and we are not going anywhere.
Riccardo SaviGetty Images for Concordia Summit
23. Kathleen McLaughlin
Chief sustainability officer, Walmart
McLaughlin is responsible for ensuring that Walmart, the worlds largest company, meets its ambitious environmental goals. Those include deriving half its energy needs from renewable sources by 2025; reducing the chemical footprint of products like household cleaners; and getting suppliers to cut their greenhouse-gas emissions. The benefits extend beyond Walmarts walls: The retail giants clout has prompted many rivals to follow suit.
Amit DaveReuters
24. Mukesh Ambani
Chairman and managing director, Reliance Industries
In less than two years, Indias richest man has brought mobile data to the massesand completely upended the countrys telecom market. Since Ambani, chief of the $47 billion conglomerate Reliance Industries, launched Jiothe first mobile network in the world to be entirely IP-basedin September 2016, the company has signed up a staggering 168 million subscribers. The secret? Offering dirt-cheap data and free calls (and plowing billions of dollars into the infrastructure that transmits them). The effect, dubbed Jio-fication, has driven Indias higher-price carriers to drop costs (if not run them out of business), and it fueled a 1,100% rise in Indias monthly data consumption.
Malin FezehaiRedux
25. Mick Cornett
Former mayor, Oklahoma City
If youre a fiscally conservative mayor in a fiscally conservative city, how do you persuade voters to pay more for public works? Cornett proposed tying new spending to small sales taxesand requiring that the taxes expire once the projects were paid for. During his 14-year tenure, his so-called MAPS plans helped Oklahoma City pay for school revitalization, public transit, and downtown improvements. Cornett left office in April on a high note and is seeking the GOP nod for governor.
Courtesy of the Carter Center
26. Donald Hopkins
Physician, the Carter Center
Many people, former U.S. President Jimmy Carter among them, consider Hopkins a hero. Its easy to see why: As a young public-health worker, the soft-spoken Bahamian-American doctor was instrumental in the global effort to eradicate smallpox. He stopped its prolific spread in Sierra Leone in less than two yearsa then-unthinkable feat of eliminating a contagious disease from the planet. Then, in 1980, he resolved to rid the world of Guinea worm disease (GWD), an awful but entirely preventable condition that annually afflicted 3.5 million people in Asia and Africa. GWD is usually not fatal, but it is painful and debilitating, the sort of scourge that strikes entire villages and, for months at a time, can bring school, commerce, and farming to a halt.
Hopkins, who is 76 and still at ithuman transmission of GWD has been stopped in all but two countries, Chad and Ethiopiasays his biggest foe has been failure of imagination. Early on, people didnt think the disease could be eradicated; others argued going after a non-killer like GWD was a waste of time and money. Thanks to Hopkins, whose data-driven playbook involves educating communities and motivating (and sometimes shaming) political leaders, GWD will likely be the second disease ever, after smallpox, to disappear from the planet.
ILLUSTRATION BY HELLOVON
27. Oprah Winfrey
CEO, OWN
Media mogul. Philanthropist. Actress. Is there anything Oprah cant do? It turns out many fans hope to see the former talk show host add U.S. President to her rsum, after her powerful speechheavily inspired by the #MeToo movementat the Golden Globes in January. Winfrey, 64, has since denied interest in running, but she continues to spotlight social causes as a frequent correspondent on CBSs 60 Minutes. She has also doubled down on healthy-living advocacy as a shareholder and board member at Weight Watchers; though she sold 25% of her shares in Marchreportedly at eight to nine times what she paid for themshe has said she plans to stick around.
William WidmerRedux
28. Mitch Landrieu
Mayor, New Orleans
The bloodshed surrounding efforts to remove a Confederate statue in Virginia last year obscured a more hopeful achievement in New Orleans, where Landrieu led a successful effort to take down four such monumentspersevering through a two-year legal battle even after city business leaders got cold feet. Another legacy for Landrieu, whose term ends in May: NOLA for Life, a mentorship program that advocates say has helped bring about a sharp reduction in gang-related homicides.
Phil WalterGetty Images
29. Jacinda Ardern
Prime Minister, New Zealand
When Ardern, 37, became New Zealands Prime Minister in October, she ushered in a new perspective in more ways than one. The worlds youngest female head of government says her country, gripped by immigration and housing crises, will be the first to rely on social, cultural, and environmental well-being metrics, in addition to GDP, as measures of progress. Ardern, who is expecting a baby in June, is also normalizing the idea of a pregnant woman leading a nation. Im pregnant, she says, not incapacitated.
Gilles SabrieBloomberg via Getty Images
30. Ma Jun
Environmentalist, China
This winter, Beijings blue skies made headlines. The notoriously smoggy Chinese capital is making headway against air pollution; progress has been measured in other Chinese cities too. Much credit goes to advocates like Ma, a journalist-turned-activist who called attention to ecological threats and forced political leaders to take them seriously. His nonprofit Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs continues to wield influence, with reports that call out corporate polluters.
West Virginia public school teachers hold a 55 United signa reference to the number of districts taking part in their strike inside the state capitol building in Charleston, W. Va.
Scott HeinsBloomberg via Getty Images
31. West Virginia Teachers
For years, it has been universally acknowledged that American public school teachers are woefully underpaidand considered a given that it has to be that way. Late last year, thousands of West Virginia teachers rose up and said, Enough, mobilizing on Facebook and defying their union to strike for fairer pay and higher standards. (They did it thoughtfully; while not teaching, they made sure students who qualified for free at-school meals got fed.) After nine days, West Virginias legislature granted them their first raise in four years. The teachers touched off a movement now playing out nationwide, inspiring educators in Kentucky, Oklahoma, and Arizona to follow their lead.
Pablo MartinEPA/REX?Shutterstock
32. Leymah Gbowee
President, Gbowee Peace Foundation
I remember attending a dinner at which Leymah honored a dozen young Liberian womenmany from rural areas where few educational opportunities existwhom her foundation had supported with college scholarships. With her indelible impact on individual girls and young women, Leymah reminds us that global change starts by investing deeply in and working directly with communities. The global fight for equity and justice is stronger with her leadership. Raj Panjabi, CEO, Last Mile Health
Photograph by Ben Baker
33. Jamie Dimon
CEO, JPMorgan Chase
After years of beating the tax-reform drum, Dimon celebrated the inclusion of several of his proposals in the new tax bill by passing along some of the savings. Less than a month after President Trump signed the overhaul into law, JPMorgan Chase announced it would spend $20 billion over five years to increase wages and lower health insurance deductibles for employees, while also hiring as many as 4,000 more to staff 400 new Chase branches.
Courtesy of Michael Sorrell
34. Michael Sorrell
President, Paul Quinn College
In 2007, when Sorrell started as president of Paul Quinn, a historically black college in Dallas, the institution was on the brink of being shut down. Founded in 1872 at the height of Reconstruction, the school was losing students, and the campus, which housed 15 abandoned buildings, was closer to a garbage dump than a grocery store, Sorrell says.
Sorrell quickly set about challenging perceptions, both external and internal, by giving Paul Quinn a bigger vision of itself. Under his leadership, the football field was turned into a farm. He solicited the schools first-ever seven-figure gift from a donor and used it to raze that campus blight, and he emphasized the recruitment of students from out of state to expand whats now a 500-plus-member student body.
He also took aim at problems that ail all of higher educationthe cost, and the disconnect with what comes after. Paul Quinn is now a federally recognized work college; students get jobs with area companies, helping them to pay tuition and prepare for life postgraduation. Sorrell, who calls this the new urban college model, now plans to open Paul Quinn campuses nationwide.
ILLUSTRATION BY JACK HUGHES
35. Reese Witherspoon
Actor/producer
Witherspoon, 42, has established herself as a bona fide mogul with a string of production successes on the silver screen (Wild, Gone Girl). Shes also an integral player in the current golden age of TV with the acclaimed HBO miniseries Big Little Lies, now filming its second season. Thats not the only way in which she has upended what has traditionally been a boys club: Witherspoon, along with costar Nicole Kidman, will earn approximately $1 million per episode for season two, and HBO bosses recently acknowledged that Witherspoons voice and role in the Times Up movement motivated them to address gender pay gaps across the network. Witherspoon has also established herself as a social media maven, reaching millions of followers with a millennial-friendly book club and a Southern-inspired clothing line, Draper James. She recently inked a deal with Apple to produce and star in an as-yet-untitled series about backstage drama at a morning talk show.
Susana GonzalezBloomberg via Getty Images
36. Daniel Servitje Montull
CEO, Grupo Bimbo
Grupo Bimbo, the worlds biggest baker, makes Sara Lee cakes, Thomass English muffins, and many McDonalds buns. Its one of the biggest employers in Mexico and several other emerging markets. Servitje, a Stanford MBA grad, has prioritized keeping Bimbos products within a low-income familys budget. He has also made it greener; in April, Bimbo struck a deal to buy wind-power credits to offset all the energy used in its U.S. operations.
AP/REX/Shutterstock
37. Izumi Nakamitsu
Undersecretary general for disarmament, United Nations
Nakamitsu is responsible for managing global threats posed by weapons of mass destruction, conventional weapons, and nuclear proliferation. She has a reputation for clearheaded pragmatism, proven in previous UN roles involving refugees and crisis response. Her diplomatic skills have been tested by the use of chemical weapons in Syria, but her quiet activism has helped prevent runaway conflict across the region. Brian Finlay, CEO, the Stimson Center
Amit ShabiLaif/Redux
38. Bashar Masri
Founder, Rawabi
Little is clear about the future of a Palestinian state, but Masri, a West Bankborn entrepreneur, built a vision for it in Rawabithe territories first-ever planned city, built for and by Palestinians. The newly completed hillside city now has 4,000 residents, a tech hub, and amenities like a luxury mall and a 15,000-person amphitheater. And in a place where private sector investment is limited, it has become the West Banks largest private job creatorand a symbol of possibility.
Philippine Senator Leila De Lima gestures to supporters from inside a police bus after her arraignment.
Rolex dela PenaEPA/REX/Shutterstock
39. Leila de Lima
Senator, Philippines
President Rodrigo Dutertes hard-line policies against drug dealers are polarizing globally, but in the Philippines theyve faced little dissent. De Lima, who headed a committee investigating hundreds of extrajudicial killings under Dutertes leadership, has been a noble exception. Last February she was arrested and jailed for as-yet-untried crimes, but imprisonment hasnt stopped the firebrand from continuing to speak out publicly.
Courtesy of Angela Gichaga
40. Angela Nyambura Gichaga
CEO, Financing Alliance for Health
Gichaga is tackling a daunting question: How should African countries finance health care for the poorest and most remote populations? By training, Gichaga is a physician, economist, and consultant. At the Financing Alliance for Health, shes also a bridge-builder, persuading donors to expand financing for community health while working with African ministries to make the most of those resources. Phyllis Heydt, Office of the UN Secretary-Generals Special Envoy for Health
Courtesy of Godwell Andrew Chan
41. Timothy Keller
Evangelical minister/author, Redeemer City to City
A self-described orthodox Christian, Keller spent 28 years building a megachurch in what many believers see as hostile territory: Manhattan. At Redeemer Presbyterian and in several books, Keller shaped a vision of Evangelicalism that de-emphasizes politics and stresses care for the poor, personal sacrifice, and inclusiveness across ethnicity and class. His next act: training pastors to serve urban flocks around the world through the Redeemer City to City initiative.
Gwynne Shotwell, SpaceXs president and COO, inside SpaceXs mission control station in Hawthorne, Calif.
Courtesy of SpaceX
42. Gwynne Shotwell
President and chief operating officer, SpaceX
Shotwell was employee No. 11 in 2002 when she joined SpaceX, a company founded to lower the cost of space travel and enable the colonization of other planets. Today, SpaceX has grown to more than 6,000 employees and contracts valued at $12 billion. Shotwell runs day-to-day operations and customer relationships, but her official title might as well be rainmaker. She takes CEO Elon Musks seemingly outlandish ideas (and idealistic timelines) and makes them happen: Achievements include the successful launch in February of SpaceXs powerful, reusable Falcon Heavy rocket. Next up: a project to deliver high-bandwidth Internet via satellites; and the BFR, a next-generation rocket designed to whisk crew and cargo to Mars and reach any city on Earth in under an hour.
ILLUSTRATION BY PAUL RYDING
43. Balkrishna Doshi
Architect, India
This years Pritzker Prize, architectures highest honor, went to Indias Doshi, who has spent the bulk of his 70-year career championing accessible housing, earning the moniker the architect for the poor. His designs include the Aranya low-cost housing project in Indore, a labyrinth of homes and courtyards that provide around 80,000 residents with a balance of open spaces and communal living, and the mixed-income Life Insurance Corporation Housing in Ahmedabad, where several generations of a family can occupy levels of the same building. Underlying all his work is the ideal that all economic classes deserve good housing.
Qilai ShenBloomberg via Getty Images
44. Feike Sijbesma
CEO,DSM
It was founded in 1902 as Dutch State Mines, but Sijbesma says DSM now stands for Do Something Meaningful. Over the past decade, he has overhauled DSM to focus on businesses that better the lives of people or the planet. That includes producing micronutrients that help the World Food Programme feed 80 million people a year. As cochair of groups such as the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, Sijbesma has proved particularly effective at rallying fellow executives.
Courtesy of Michael HammondCommunications & Marketing Dept. of UCT
45. Kelly Chibale
Scientist, South Africa
In much of Africa, the infrastructure to support scientific research is sorely lacking. But Chibale is working to change that. The Zambian chemist has built H3D, Africas first integrated drug discovery center, at the University of Cape Town. His team now includes more than 90 researchers; they work out of state-of-the-art facilities thanks to partnerships with the Gates Foundation, Novartis, and South Africas government. H3D already has a potential drug for malaria in human trials.
Juan Manuel Serrano ArceGetty Images
46. Ana Botn
Group executive chairman, Banco Santander
Botn had big shoes to fill, not to mention whisperings of nepotism to dispel, when she took over Banco Santander, the eurozones second-largest bank, after the sudden death of her father in 2014. The shoes fit fine: Since then, she has steered the bank to higher profits and capital ratios. And her takeover last year of Populara failing Spanish bank whose assets gave Santander a home-market edgefor a price of just one euro may be her companys best deal ever.
Courtesy of Creative Mornings Tegucigalpa
47. Dina Meza
Journalist, PEN Honduras
Honduras has a homicide rate thats six times the global average. Yet danger hasnt deterred Meza, founder and editor of online news site Pasos de Animal Grande, from covering its crime and corruption. The site shone a light on the assassination of activist Berta Cceres and provided authoritative coverage of 2017s volatile elections. Meza also started PEN Honduras, an organization that supports journalists at risk in a country where murders of reporters are tragically frequent.
Ed WrayGetty Images
48. Ridwan Kamil
Mayor, Bandung, Indonesia
When Kamil became mayor of Bandung in 2013, the city of 2.5 million was struggling with pollution, traffic congestion, and stifling red tape. Kamil, a former architect, turned to technology: Over 400 software applications have been created to improve efficiency and sidestep bureaucracyone program helps smaller enterprises register themselves online instead of in person. Kamil also built up Bandungs Command Center, where data from closed-circuit TV helps the city respond more quickly to problems like traffic jams and potholes. Hes now running for governor of West Java, a key post in Indonesian politics.
Amy Gutmann celebrates a big win by Penn's men's basketball team.
Corey PerrineGetty Images
49. Amy Gutmann
President, University of Pennsylvania
A first-generation college-goer herself, Gutmann has steadily increased their ranks on Penns campus. When she took office in 2004, 1 in 20 students were first-generation and low-income, today its 1 in 8, and shes also a vocal backer of international students and immigrants on campus. Her fundraising has been blockbuster too, enabling Penn to offer the largest all-grant financial aid program in the country. Her reforms have helped secure her a contract extension through 2022, which would make her the longest-serving president in the universitys history.
Scott AremanCourtesy of Delta
50. Ed Bastian
CEO, Delta Air Lines
Several companies changed their policies in reaction to the shootings at a high school in Parkland, Fla., in February; only Delta Air Lines saw almost immediate economic retaliation. Days after Delta rescinded a discount it had offered to National Rifle Association members, Georgia legislators scrapped a jet-fuel tax exemption that could have provided Delta, which is headquartered in Atlanta, with a $40 million annual tax break. Lawmakers accused the airline of attacking conservatives and even the Second Amendment itself.
In a letter to employees explaining the decision, CEO Ed Bastian argued that the airline wasnt taking sides in the gun-control debate. It ended the discount, he made clear, to eliminate any implied endorsement of the NRA, a group whose public statements in the wake of the shootings had gone far outside the bounds of civil debate. Our decision was not made for economic gain, and our values are not for sale, Bastian wrote. We are in the process of a review to end group discounts for any group of a politically divisive nature. It wasnt the kind of ringing statement that rallies a generation of activistsbut it was a template for well-reasoned business leadership in a fragmented world.
