['google-news', '203', 'https://www.facebook.com/bbcnews', 'Mass engine inspections ordered after accident', 'Hundreds of jet engines will be checked worldwide following the Southwest Airlines mid-air accident.', 'http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-43846660', 'https://ichef-1.bbci.co.uk/news/1024/branded_news/1389B/production/_100972008_gettyimages-948795310.jpg', '2018-04-21T01:15:12+00:00']
Bird v plane: The battle for airspace
Who was the victim?
Image caption Jennifer Riordan is the first passenger to die in an accident on a US commercial airliner since 2009
Jennifer Riordan was a 43-year-old mother-of-two and executive for Wells Fargo bank in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Shrapnel from the shredded engine smashed the window next to her causing rapid decompression in the cabin that nearly blasted her out of the jet.
Other passengers pulled her back in and tried to revive her but she died from her injuries.
Philadelphia's medical examiner said on Wednesday that Ms Riordan had died of blunt impact trauma to her head, neck and torso.
Seven other passengers were slightly injured.
Ms Riordan was the first passenger to die in an accident on a US commercial airliner since 2009.
How did the drama unfold?
Media playback is unsupported on your device
Media captionAir traffic control: "I'm sorry, you said there is a hole?"
About 20 minutes after the twin-engine Boeing 737 took off, shrapnel pierced the passenger compartment causing the plane to lose pressure and rapidly descend.
With oxygen masks over their mouths, passengers screamed and braced for impact.
For a few seconds, the aircraft rolled to an angle of 41 degrees before levelling out and starting an emergency descent, federal investigators said on Wednesday.
"Southwest 1380, we're single engine," the pilot radioed to air traffic control.
"We have part of the aircraft missing so we're going to need to slow down a bit," she said, adding that some passengers had been hurt.
"Injured passengers, okay, and is your airplane physically on fire?" asks a male voice in the tower, according to a recording released by officials.
"No, it's not on fire, but part of it's missing," the pilot, Capt Tammie Jo Shults, replies.
"They said there's a hole, and uh, someone went out," she calmly adds.
Related Topics
