['google-news', '205', 'Sarah Maslin Nir', '19 Years After Columbine, Students Again Say \xe2\x80\x98Enough\xe2\x80\x99 on Gun Violence', 'Young marchers, many not yet born when the Colorado shooting took place, turned out for the third time in two months to protest school shootings.', 'https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/20/nyregion/student-walkout-gun-violence-new-york.html', 'https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/21/nyregion/21walkout1/21walkout1-facebookJumbo.jpg', '2018-04-20T23:47:51+00:00']
Opt out or contact us anytime
Ill be teaching this ten years from now, Ms. DeJulio added.
In New York City, some schools like the private Packer Collegiate Institute had agreed to let students who had parental consent attend the protest. Fifth graders on up, accompanied by chaperones, filed out of the school in Brooklyn Heights en route to the protest on Friday morning. But other students arrived at the protest without permission slips, under threat of demerit, and fearful of academic repercussions.
The New York City Department of Education said that it would consider leaving school to attend the protest an unexcused absence. For some students, there would be consequences.
The crowd of students in Washington Square Park covered just about a quarter of the park, thinned perhaps by the education departments threat, or by simple protest fatigue.
Continue reading the main story
Photo
At Packer Collegiate Institute in Brooklyn, a private school, students were allowed to walk out with parental permission. Credit Holly Pickett for The New York Times
That did not stop Lorna Gregory, 15, a student at Pace University High School, from joining in on Friday. This is considered cutting. I think I failed dance. I had a 97, and now Ill have a 40 or something, she said, standing on a bench in the park to see over the crowd of students. Its kind of worrying me a little bit, but Im standing for a cause.
(She may not need to worry: We would not take account of school discipline in a circumstance of peaceful protest on a pressing matter of conscience and national debate, said a spokesman for New York University, John H. Beckman. At Columbia University, any students who face disciplinary action for peaceful protest will not be at a disadvantage in the Columbia admissions process, according to Victoria Bentez, a spokeswoman for the school.)
On the C train on Friday, Zeny Gatdula was with a group of classmates she had drawn from the Professional Performing Arts School, their banners in their laps. In humanities class we are taught about history, these great people who stood up for what they believed in, even when everybody was against them. And I think thats the key in getting people to rise up, she said.
She was 17 years old, she said, but in a month, she would be able to register to vote, a moment she was looking forward to, when she could become more than just a protesting voice. It was a sentiment shared widely across the protests, where in Manhattan and Ridgefield, teenagers filtered through the crowds with voter registration forms.
In Connecticut, the students goals were overt: On a fence by the football field was a sign that read, Cant hear us now? How about in 200 days?
Advertisement
In 200 days it would be Nov. 6, the date of the midterm elections.
Nate Schweber contributed reporting from New York and Kristin Hussey contributed reporting from Ridgefield, Conn.
A version of this article appears in print on April 21, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Thousands Of Students In Protest Of Violence. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
