['google-news', '209', 'Maggie Haberman, Sharon LaFraniere and Danny Hakim', 'Michael Cohen Has Said He Would Take a Bullet for Trump. Maybe Not Anymore.', 'Roger Stone says Mr. Trump has long treated Mr. Cohen, his lawyer and fixer, \xe2\x80\x9clike garbage.\xe2\x80\x9d Now he could end up cooperating in a criminal investigation against Mr. Trump.', 'https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/20/us/politics/trump-michael-cohen.html', 'https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/21/us/politics/21dc-trumpcohen1/21dc-trumpcohen1-facebookJumbo.jpg', '2018-04-20T18:13:37+00:00']
OPEN Interactive Graphic
And Cohen started laughing, and he said, I dont have a problem with the title personally, Mr. DAntonio recalled. Nonetheless, he said, Mr. Cohen said he would call the publisher to get the title changed, and then threatened a lawsuit when he couldnt.
In 2007, Mr. Cohen was dispatched, along with Ivanka Trump, to scout a golf course development project in Fresno, Calif., that didnt materialize. The next year, he served as chief operating officer of Affliction Entertainment, a Trump mixed-martial arts venture of boxing, wrestling and karate that featured a Russian Army veteran named Fedor Emelianenko. (His thing is inflicting death on people, Mr. Trump said at the time .)
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
He has also scouted business opportunities for Mr. Trump in the former Soviet bloc, including a 2010 trip to Georgia on Mr. Trumps behalf.
Mr. Cohen has been active in Mr. Trumps political ventures. When Mr. Trump pondered running for president in 2012, it was Mr. Cohen who went on an early trip to Iowa to meet with Republican operatives and who set up a website called ShouldTrumpRun.org. He even initially sought to pay some of the costs for the site with money raised for his own abortive run for New York State Senate.
Mr. Trump never ran in 2012, but Mr. Cohen raised $500,000 in four hours for the Mitt Romney presidential campaign that year during one of their national call days  and had campaign officials credit it as money that his boss had raised, one former Romney official recalled. When Mr. Trump ran for president in 2016, Mr. Cohen was given no official role on the campaign.
He fought with the initial campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski. Paul Manafort, the campaign chairman, later blocked him from coming on board. Mr. Trump never ordered his aides to make a place for Mr. Cohen.
Some of Mr. Cohens efforts to help only led to embarrassing rebuffs in front of those in charge. A month before the election, Mr. Cohen approached Mr. Trump outside his Trump Tower office with photographs of Bill Clinton and a mixed-race man alleged  without any evidence  to be the former presidents illegitimate son. Mr. Trump knocked the papers away, angrily telling Mr. Cohen to get that out of my face, said one former campaign official who witnessed the incident.
Particularly hurtful to Mr. Cohen was the way Mr. Trump lavished approval on Mr. Lewandowski in a way he never did for Mr. Cohen. When Mr. Cohen told Mr. Trump that he believed that Mr. Lewandowski had been behind a negative story about Mr. Trumps son-in-law, Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump dismissed the comments as simple jealousy, and didnt pay attention, according to two people familiar with the incident.
Mr. Cohen raised millions of dollars for Mr. Trump in the campaign, at a time when the candidate was struggling to attract support. Mr. Cohen tried to soften the edges as Mr. Trump faced a torrent of criticism for decades of racially divisive remarks, forming a diversity coalition to give Mr. Trump cover composed of African-Americans, Muslims and other groups.
Nobody else around Donald Trump would have thought to do that for him, said Darrell Scott, an African-American pastor from Ohio and a friend of Mr. Cohen who helped created the coalition.
A version of this article appears in print on April 21, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Punching Bag  For President  Now Has Clout. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
