['ign', '221', 'NOVALUE', 'The River Pass - God of War 2018 Wiki Guide - IGN', 'The River Pass - God of War 2018: The River Pass is one of the main Regions in God of War. It is the second region you can explore in the game, and part of your main Journey. The Rive...', 'http://www.ign.com/wikis/god-of-war-2018/The_River_Pass', 'http://assets1.ignimgs.com/2015/05/27/contentplaceholderpng-967b4c.png', '2018-04-21T03:52:38.2276247Z']
5 Nornir Chests
-
Below you will find details on where to locate all of the collectibles in this area - but note that some may require you to come back later when you have the tools needed to get to certain areas.
Edit Artifact Locations
There are 9 Artifacts to find in The River Pass - they are part of the Faces of Magic Collection.
Edit Artifact 1
Near the first Mystic Gateway along the path after your first fight with human Reavers, drop down the chain near the ruins exit. You can take the path to a ridge overlooking the Marketplace, and a ledge going back up to the entrance - near the ledge is a dead soldier holding one of The Faces of Magic masks, part of artifact set.
Edit Artifact 2
At Brok's Shop at the edge of the Marketplace Ruins, go right instead near the trees you threw your axe at to find a small lower platform you can hop down to. Theres a dead soldier here holding another of The Faces of Magic artifacts, a Man Mask.
Edit Artifact 3
On the other side of the spiked ceiling chamber past Brok's Shop, climb up to find a dead soldier that holds another of The Faces of Magic, and grab this new Mask near the exit to the cave.
Edit Artifact 4
After the spiked chamber, there's a large plateau before the area with the first sand bowl. Head along the edge of the plateau to the far side where youll find a dead soldier, and he holds another of The Faces of Magic, and grab this next mask.
Edit Artifact 5
After opening the large riddle door using the sand bowl, enter the tunnel until the path swerves right, but you can go left to climb up to a small pool of water where another of the Faces of Magic artifacts lies, grab the mask to add it your collection.
Edit Artifact 6
After defeating the Troll in the River Pass, head through the tunnel to a ruined village and drop down. Next to the second house with Hacksilver inside is a tiny husk of a hut you can break. Behind it youll find the body of a soldier holding another of The Faces of Magic, and you can add another mask to your collection.
Edit Artifact 7
On your fist visit to the Witch's House, you'll leave by way of a large cave. Take the bridge down from her door and go left to a lower path with a pallet of large stones you can move. Now push the pallet into the water to form a floating platform. You can cross the platform to a dead soldier who carries one of The Faces of Magic artifacts, and add it to your collection.
Edit Artifact 8
Upon returning to the Witch's Cave after getting Light and Shock Arrows, break the red wall of sap to find a large well you can climb up to the Witch's House. As you head down the path to the house, look to the right to find the body of a dead soldier holding one of the Faces of Magic Artifacts, the Hole Mask.
Edit Artifact 9
A final artifact can be found climbing the chain next to the Rune Reads by the turtle once you are able to revisit the forest floor around the Witch's House. It leads to a short path with an inactive Nornir Chest, and if you look to the side you can spot one more dead body holding the last of the Faces of Magic Artifact set.
Edit Nornir Chest Locations
There are 5 Nornir Chests in The River Pass: 3 Idunn Apples and 2 Horns of Blood Mead.
Edit Idunn Apple 1
In the marketplace ruins after killing your first Revenant, climb up to where the path splits and go right to find a Nornir Chest near a bridge to the exit of the ruins. The N looking rune is located just behind it - throw your axe to break it.
The others lie over the bridge - head back to the cliff overlooking the bridge to spot and break both weakpoints to lower the bridge. Now you can look to the left of the bridge entrance for the R looking run high up on a ledge behind a chest. The last C looking rune is behind a gate further past the bridge, but you can spy it through a hole looking left as you cross and hit it by throwing your axe.
Edit Horn of Blood Mead 1
Entering the spike ceiling chamber after Brok's Shop, pass through to the other side where a ledge leads to the exit. Before leaving, turn around to hop up a small ledge. As the ceiling descends, a new platform appears that you can leap to and find locked Nornir Chest. The N looking rune is found behind you up in the top corner.
The C looking rune is found through the broken spiked wall on the way to a chest full of Hacksilver. As for the R looking rune, its hidden behind wooden beams to the left of the chest - you need to raise the platform slightly by throwing your axe at the panels below.
Edit Idunn Apple 2
In the area where you kill the Troll in The River Pass, look off to the left side of the arena for a cliff overlooking the distant mountain where the Nornir Chest is. The N looking rune is found just behind it - but it cant be broken. When it stops ringing, the seal will reappear so you need to be quick to find the others.
The R looking rune is found just to the left above the waterfall, and the C looking rune is located back upstream behind one of the giant ribs. Hit them all quickly and youll unlock the Nornir Chest.
Edit Horn of Blood mead 2
When you can return to the Witch's Cave with Light and Shock Arrows, head down the path towards where you pushed the pallet into the water to find new blue crystals below that create a path to a Nornir Chest. The runes are quite spread out here. The N looking rune is opposite the Nornir Chest next to a coffin encased in red sap on a ledge.
Look to the right of the Nornir Chest to find a blue crystal you can shoot to make a path to a Shatter Crystal, and throw it at the wall to the left of the chest to find the R looking rune to the left of the Hidden Chamber. Finally, the C looking rune is in the large well past the red sap wall next to the lift.
Edit Idunn Apple 3
After you have the ability needed to manipulate the Winds of Hel, Return to the Witch's Cave and head back up the well out to where the turtle resides, and look at the giant arch you summoned using the sand bowl (the runes can be seen from the ledge above). The right side of the arch has Winds of Hel on it, and you can transfer it to the left side of the arch. Now head up the chain to the high ridge above where you spotted the runes for the sand bowl, and grab the Winds before turning and running down the path and placing them below a rune mechanism for a moment - noting that it will start cycling runes. Take them the rest of the way to a receptacle behind the Nornir Chest to activate it - revealing three B symbols rotated around. You'll need to make sure the top of the spinning mechanism above the Winds of Hel receptacle has the "B" looking rune, the one below it has the "^^" looking rune, then leave the winds in the final rune receptacle until it cycles to the backwards "B" looking rune before taking the Winds to the chest to open it.
Edit Legendary Chest Locations
There are 5 Legendary Chests located in The River Pass.
Edit Legendary Chest 1
Just down the path from where you fight a Reaver before crossing the bridge that collapses, Atreus will point out a chest on the right. It contains a Runic Gem: Hels Touch.
Edit Legendary Chest 2
After entering the Witch's Cave for the first time, head down the bridge and go left across platforms to a boat. As you hop across the stone platforms, make sure to loot the Legendary Chest at the end for a Talisman of Concentrated Vitality.
Edit Legendary Chest 3 =
After obtaining both Light and Shock Arrows, return to the Witch's Cave. Head to the bottom floor and create paths using Light Arrows to a wall of sap you can shatter with nearby Shatter Crystal. Head into the area to the left of the Hidden Chamber of Odin. The blue roots appears to mean that you can't do anything more - but you can. Look up to the left of the bramble to spy breakable wood that you can boost Atreus up to.
He'll appear out on a ledge, and you can move a pallet of giant stones over to him to send him across to the other side where a sand bowl is. After inspecting it, look up at the ceiling to spy runes behind wooden boards you can break with your axe. As Atreus solves the riddle, the platform he is on will lower, and you can jump across to find a Legendary Chest in an alcove that holds Murder of Crows - a Runic Summon for Atreus.
Edit Legendary Chest 4
After getting the previous chest, destroy the Red Sap Wall and climb up the well to the forest around the Witch's House. There's a Legendary Chest on the other side of the big turtle, covered in rubble, as well as a sand bowl.
Look for a chain to climb up to a ledge and head to the end of the path past the raven to an overlook of the Witchs House that can let you plainly see all the runes upon the rocks that solve the riddle. This will rearranged the crumbling rocks to reveal the path to the Legendary Chest beneath them, and youll gain Storm of the Elks - a Runic Summon.
Edit Legendary Chest 5
After you obtain the item needed to interact with the Winds of Hel, head down to the Witchs Cave, and head to the right of the well to where the Cipher Chest was to find Hels Wind, and grab it. Take it to a receptacle to the left of the bridge to the Witchs House, then down below to the lone platform in the middle of the lower cave area. Cross to the other side of the cave to place the wind on an upper platform above some Hel Bramble. Then destroy the bramble and move the giant pallet of stones to the middle so you can grab the Winds of Hel and jump across to the other side and place it in a stone vault, which will reveal a Legendary Chest holding the Rampage of the Furies - a new Light Runic Attack.
Edit Odin's Raven Locations
There are 6 of Odin's Ravens located in the River Pass, all of which are perched and not flying.
Edit Odin's Raven 1
After you fall from the bridge into the marketplace ruins, take out all the Draugr in the area. From where you took out the projectile-throwing Draugr, look just above along the ridge to spot a glowing green raven. This is one of Odins Ravens, the eyes and ears of the god himself. If you miss it, you can also find it when exiting the ruins after defeating the human Reavers.
Edit Odin's Raven 2
After opening up the large door using the sand bowl and solving the riddle, enter the tunnel and continue along the main path forward to where you can spot a large opening far up an incline. At the top, a green raven sits along the edge - you'll need to aim your axe just a bit higher than the bird to compensate for the drop off.
Edit Odin's Raven 3
After defeating the Troll in The River Pass, look up at the giant bony ribcage of some long dead giant thing to spot a glowing green raven perched on one of the middle ribs. Launch your axe it to kill it.
Edit Odin's Raven 4
In the area beyond where you killed the Troll in The River Pass you'll come to a ledge overlooking a destroyed village of several huts. From your vantage point above the town, look to the hut on the right to find a green glowing raven picking at the body of a man on the side of the roof, and throw your axe to kill it.
Edit Odin's Raven 5
Once you have obtained the Shock Arrows, return to the Witch's Cave and break open the red sap wall near the lift to climb up a well to the forest above. Look for a chain that leads up to a ledge near the giant turtle for a path, and then look up to the left as you pass by some high rocks to find the raven perched up top.
Odin's Raven 6: After you gain the Magic Chisel, return to the Witch's Cave and find the Hidden Chamber of Odin on the lower level of the cave past the red sap wall. Take the lift down and you'll find the Raven in the arena here.
Edit Lore Locations
Lore 1: As you first take the path from the Wildwoods to The River Pass, you'll enter an area where ranged Draugr first appear. Have Atreus inspect the runes by the rock wall to decipher the meaning of the Rune Reads: Giants!
Lore 2: Once you fall down from the bridge into the Marketplace Ruins, defeat the Draugr, and Atreus will likely go to inspect a large column nearby thats filled with runes of lore. Go and check it out yourself to learn more about this area: the Jotnar Marketplace.
Lore 3: After fighting your first Revenant, head to the ravine you can climb up and cross a bridge to where the path splits. Head left, and you'll find a Scroll on the floor near a Jotnar Shrine for Atreus to read: Svartalfheim Sealed.
Lore 4: Next to the scroll mentioned previously, head to the back of this path where it ends to find a Jotnar Shrine to reveal Hrungnir.
Lore 5: In the area where you fought the Troll of the River Pass, Look to the left of the Nornir Chest to find a wooden wall next to a raised chain. Hit the planks at the top and boost Atreus up so he can lower the chain. At the top, youll find a Lore Marker - Prayer to Odin.
Lore 6: When you are able to return to the Witch's Cave with the Shock and Light Arrows, blow up the red wall of sap near the lift with Shock Arrows, and start climbing the big well at the end. As you make the climb up the well, have Atreus read the runes to uncover a Rune Reading: Keep Out.
Lore 7: As you climb out of the well to the forest around the Witch's House, next to the overlook is a Lore Marker missing its text. Look for a blue crystal stashed behind the well and bring it over to reveal the text of the marker: Prayer to Frigg.
Lore 8 and 9: After killing the Draugr that surround the giant turtle and the Witch's House, be sure to look around for two sets of Rune Reads: A Seidr Curse is below the cliff you came down from, while Down With Odin can be found next to a chain up the side of a wall.
Exit Theatre Mode
