['ign', '223', 'David Griffin', 'Former Smallville Star Arrested in Relation to Sex Trafficking Cult - IGN', 'Former Smallville star Allison Mack was arrested in connection with a sex trafficking cult.', 'http://www.ign.com/articles/2018/04/21/former-smallville-star-arrested-in-relation-to-sex-trafficking-cult', 'http://assets1.ignimgs.com/2018/04/20/smallville-1524267032933_1280w.jpg', '2018-04-21T00:17:12Z']
Former Smallville Star Allison Mack Arrested in Relation to Sex Trafficking Cult
Share.
By David Griffin
Allison Mack, the former Smallville actress has been arrested in connection with a sex traffickingcult run by Keith Raniere.
According to The Hollywood Reporter , Mack and Raniere were charged with sex trafficking, sex trafficking conspiracy, and forced labor conspiracy.United States Attorney Richard P. Donoghue had this to say in his statement:
7 Best Superman Comics to Learn About Krypton
8 IMAGES
Check out these comics to learn all there is to know about Superman's homeworld.
01 8
Check out these comics to learn all there is to know about Superman's homeworld.
7 Best Superman Comics to Learn About Krypton
Download Image
Captions
ESC
"As alleged in the indictment, Allison Mack recruited women to join what was purported to be a female mentorship group that was, in fact, created and led by Keith Raniere, Donoghue said. The victims were then exploited, both sexually and for their labor, to the defendants benefit."
While the arrests of Raniere and Mack took place on Friday, the group has reportedly been active for nearly two decades. Under the company name of NXIVM, Mack helped recruit more female slaves who thought they were joining a "women-only organization that would empower them and eradicate purported weaknesses that the NXIVM curriculum taught were common in women," according to the U.S. Attorney's Office.
Exit Theatre Mode
Mack's representative, Michelle Bega, told the outlet that she had no comment on the arrest. FBI Assistant Director-in-Charge William F. Sweeney asks for other victims to reach out with any new information about the case:
As this pyramid scheme continues to unravel," Sweeney said, adding, "we ask anyone who might have been a victim to reach out to us with information that may further our investigation."
David Griffin still watches DuckTales in his pajamas with a cereal bowl in hand. He's also the TV Editor for IGN. Say hi on Twitter .
IGN Recommends
