['ign', '228', 'NOVALUE', 'Season 3 Challenges Week 9 - Fortnite Wiki Guide - IGN', 'Season 3 Challenges Week 9 - Fortnite: Weekly challenges have been added to Season 3 of Fortnite Battle Royale and this page shows you how to complete and unlock all the Week 9 challenges,...', 'http://www.ign.com/wikis/fortnite/Season_3_Challenges_Week_9', 'http://assets1.ignimgs.com/2015/05/27/contentplaceholderpng-967b4c.png', '2018-04-20T22:07:40.3025689Z']
Soccer Stadium west of Tilted Towers
Pit stop south of Shifty Shafts.
Use our map above to pinpoint the exact locations. There are two taco shops that are closer together than the rest. Aim to hit these two in the same game, then worry about trying to get to the last. Or do it vice versa, get the one that's far out and aim to end the game by visiting the two closer ones.
Edit Follow the treasure map found in Moisty Mire
Another week, another token to collect. Start by heading over to Moisty Mire and land at the treehouse in the center. Below the stairs that lead to the entrance is a wall. There you'll find a map that shows a triangle of trees with a trial of footprints leading to a house. An X is marked on the top of the house.
The actual token is located in quadrant G6. Head over there to find two houses near the fork in the road. Get on top of the smaller house and look for the token on top of the chimney.
Use our map above to pinpoint the exact location!
Edit Shotgun Eliminations
Take out four players using a shotgun. Surprisingly, this challenge is considered hard and is worth 10 Battle Stars. Shotguns can be very deadly and often take down opponents in one shot if used correctly. Aim for the head! Use any of the following weapons to add to this challenge:
Edit Eliminate opponents in Lucky Landing
Defeat three enemies in Lucky Landing. The most recent location added to the map is now home to another elimination challenge. Lucky Landing is at the south most tip of the map and features a good amount of buildings and houses.
There's a chest within the giant cherry tree in the center of the town. Seeing it break down will give at least one player's location away. There are a few buildings and some of the taller shrines that can give you the higher ground advantage on anyone roaming around the ground floor. Most matches will have you running north to the circle so keep this in mind and take enemies out as they plan to leave in that direction.
Exit Theatre Mode
