['mashable', '240', 'Angie Han', 'Summer movie preview: The 5 most highly anticipated movies', 'Seriously, make time for these.', 'http://mashable.com/2018/04/20/summer-movie-preview-2018-best-films/', 'https://i.amz.mshcdn.com/CSF5aif2ZAblcvWxRa99CypHze0=/1200x630/2018%2F04%2F20%2Fd8%2Fddd93fbe7e624efd87d0d5e4228e3c11.921ea.jpg', '2018-04-20T16:05:51Z']
Yes to all of this.
Image:  Warner Bros.
By Angie Han
2018-04-20 16:05:51 UTC
Welcome to the final installment of our 2018 summer movie preview. We've already got you covered if you're looking for action and adventure , drama and comedy , horror and thriller , or animated and family-friendly . Today, we'll wrap it up with the best of the best.
All week long, we've been adding to your summer movie to-do list.
But here's the point where we acknowledge that even the most diehard cinephiles have their limits. There are only so many hours in a day, even if those days are getting longer.
SEE ALSO: These memorable movie scenes were totally unscripted
Besides, it's summer! It's nice out! You don't want to spend the entire season sitting in the dark. You'd like to occasionally do stuff like go outside, or see your loved ones, or maybe even take a little vacation.
So, okay, fine, we hear you. You'd like us to cut to the chase and let you know what the real essentials are  the stuff you absolutely cannot miss, come what may. Here, then, is what you need to watch if you only have time for five movies this summer...
 and you want in on the watercooler conversations: Avengers: Infinity War (April 27)
If your social media feeds look anything like ours, Avengers: Infinity War is already the only thing anyone can talk about, and the dang thing isn't even out yet. And you can be sure that conversation will continue for weeks to come, as we sort out who's fake-dead, who's really dead, who's gonna die next, and how great Cap looks in his fugitive beard. Don't you want to be a part of it all?
 and you crave the rush of a high-speed heist: Oceans 8 (June 8)
Forget Danny Ocean. 2018 is the year of Debbie  Danny's cooler sister who can do with a team of eight women what Danny needed eleven men to pull off. Sandra Bullock leads a crackerjack cast that includes Cate Blanchett, Anne Hathaway, Helena Bonham Carter, Mindy Kaling, Sarah Paulson, Awkwafina, and Rihanna. Because only a squad this cool could pull off a heist this daring without so much as breaking a sweat.
 and you never want to sleep again: Hereditary (June 8)
We're not really sure what's going on in the trailers for Hereditary, and we're not really sure we want to find out. We're just too scared! There's a creepy child, an even creepier dollhouse, an unhinged performance by Toni Collette... and apparently, it all adds up to a movie so intense, it's terrifying even the most jaded midnight-movie festival crowds. Watch this one at your own risk.
 and youve got a soft spot for coming-of-age movies: Eighth Grade (July 13)
You truly could not pay us enough to relive the horrors of middle school. And yet we can't wait for Eighth Grade. In his directorial debut, Bo Burnham confronts that awkward period with cringeworthy honesty and no small amount of empathy. This might just be the next big coming-of-age classic.
 and all you wanna do is have some fun: The Meg (August 10)
There are movies that happen to have summer release dates, and then there are summer movies. We don't know about you, but we can't think of anything we'd rather do on a hot, sticky day than slip into an air-conditioned theater where we can spend two hours watching Jason Statham do battle with an enormous prehistoric shark.
All week, we've been running our 2018 summer movie preview. Here's what to watch if...
