['medical-news-today', '242', 'Maria Cohut', 'Sleep paralysis: What is it, and how can you cope with it?', 'In sleep paralysis, your mind wakes up, but your body does not. You may also experience frightening hallucinations. What is this, and how can we cope?', 'http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321569.php', 'https://cdn1.medicalnewstoday.com/content/images/hero/321/321569/321569_1100.jpg', '2018-04-20T00:00:00Z']
Fact checked by Jasmin Collier
You wake up in the middle of the night, convinced that an evil figure is lying in wait. You attempt to move, but your body just will not budge. You try to scream, but nothing comes out. The monster draws closer. It may sound like a horror movie scene, but this is the real deal  you're experiencing sleep paralysis.
Sleep paralysis is like a waking nightmare, and the underlying causes for this condition remain unclear.
This terrifying and mysterious sleep disorder, or parasomnia, has been experienced by people possibly since the dawn of humankind.
And, it may have given rise to numerous ghost stories and mysterious accounts involving "things that go bump in the night."
This most unsettling experience was first clearly documented in a medical treatise in the 17th century, by Dutch physician Isbrand Van Diembroeck, who wrote about the case of a woman "50 years of age, in good plight [health], strong," yet who complained of mysterious experiences at night.
"[W]hen she was composing her self to sleep," explains Van Diembroeck, "sometimes she believed the devil lay upon her and held her down, sometimes that she was [choked] by a great dog or thief lying upon her breast, so that she could hardly speak or [breathe], and when she endeavored to throw off the [burden], she was not able to stir her members."
What the woman in Van Dimbroeck's account likely experienced was a condition that has come to be known as " sleep paralysis ."
Researchers define it as "a common, generally benign, parasomnia characterized by brief episodes of inability to move or speak combined with waking consciousness."
Sleep paralysis and hallucinations
The reason why sleep paralysis is so scary is not just because you will suddenly become alert but realize that you are, in fact, unable to move a muscle or utter a sound, but also because this experience is often  as in the case above  accompanied by terrifying hallucinations.
These, as specialized literature has now ascertained, typically fall into three distinct categories:
a sensed presence, or intruder hallucinations, in which the person feels the presence of an evil, threatening individual
incubus hallucinations, in which the person might feel someone or something pressing down uncomfortably, even painfully, on their chest or abdomen, or trying to choke them
vestibular-motor hallucinations, during which the individual thinks that they are floating, flying, or moving  these may also sometimes include out-of-body experiences , in which a person thinks that their spirit or mind has left their body and is moving and observing events from above
Among the types of dreamlike hallucinations listed above, the first type  a sensed presence  is one of the most commonly experienced by people with sleep paralysis.
As for the time of sleep at which sleep paralysis  with or without hallucinations  normally takes place, again, there is no single answer.
According to a study that was published in the Journal of Sleep Research, sleep paralysis typically happens soon after falling asleep (or hypnagogic episodes), at some point during the course of sleep (or hypnomesic episodes), or a little before the person's usual time of awakening (or hypnopompic episodes).
The authors of that study note that the most common instances of sleep paralysis are hypnomesic, and that they usually take place after 13 hours from falling asleep.
'A strange, shadowy man'
In fact, these visions and sensations can seem so realistic to many people that they may think that they are having a paranormal experience, or even being subjected to strange tests and rituals.
The most common hallucination linked to sleep paralysis is the 'sensed presence' of a sinister figure.
"Witness accounts" of such hallucinations can be truly unsettling, and a number of long-time experients  such as Louid Proud in his book Dark Intrusions  have offered detailed accounts of years of uncanny nightly encounters.
One person who told me about his nightmarish hallucinations said he felt as if "someone knelt on [his] chest so that it [felt] as if [he was] being choked out."
Another person spoke of a night-time assailant that takes pleasure in tormenting her in myriad ways.
"When [sleep paralysis] strikes, I get both visual and auditory hallucinations, which most often involve a strange, shadowy man coming up my stairs and into my bedroom. Occasionally, he'll prod or tickle me."
Often, she told me, this sinister figure even "co-opts" her partner in his mischief.
"Sometimes," she says, "I'll even hallucinate my partner lying next to me and laughing maliciously at me, or siding with the shadowy figure in annoying me. This is very frustrating, since all I want him to do is help me!"
Given the intensity of these hallucinatory experiences, it may come as no surprise that researchers have repeatedly argued that hallucinations linked with sleep paralysis can be held responsible for many reports of magical events , sightings of ghouls and demons, and alien abductions .
Some happy exceptions
Although usually people with sleep paralysis report experiencing terrifying hallucinations, a happy few actually point to a state of bliss that makes them look forward to these episodes.
A study that was conducted by James Allan Cheyne, from the University of Waterloo in Ontario, Canada, suggests that the people who most often describe experiencing positive feelings and sensations during an episode of sleep paralysis are those who are prone to vestibular-motor hallucinations.
"These hallucinations were found to involve feelings of floating and [out-of-body experiences], which are associated with feelings of bliss rather than fear."
James Allan Cheyne
"In contrast to the other-oriented nature of the Intruder and Incubus hallucinations," he adds, "these experiences are very much focused on the experient's own person."
Sometimes, Cheyne continues, feelings of bliss during sleep paralysis are derived from pleasant erotic sensations that arise from vestibular-motor hallucinations.
What is the underlying mechanism?
So, what happens in the body during an episode of sleep paralysis? Essentially, during the dream phase of sleep  known as the rapid eye movement ( REM ) phase  our skeletal muscles are paralyzed.
The reasons behind this are not fully understood, though researchers have been making progress in uncovering the mechanisms attached to this process.
