['medical-news-today', '244', 'Brenda B. Spriggs, MD, MPH, FACP', 'Fibromyalgia symptoms in women: Causes and treatments', 'The defining feature of fibromyalgia is widespread pain. It is more common in women than men, who may experience this and other symptoms differently. Women also tend to have more symptoms, including bowel irritation, and heavy, painful menstruation. Learn abo\xe2\x80\xa6', 'http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321559.php', 'https://cdn1.medicalnewstoday.com/content/images/hero/321/321559/321559_1100.jpg', '2018-04-20T00:00:00Z']
urinary problems, such as frequency
vomiting
diarrhea and gastrointestinal issues
Symptoms can vary in intensity, but many find that stress , exhaustion, and illness can make symptoms worse. The type of pain is less important for diagnosis than the pain's chronic and widespread nature.
Symptoms in women
Women with fibromyalgia may experience heightened or different symptoms compared with men.
Specific symptoms
Women are more likely to experience:
fatigue in the morning
pain all over the body
symptoms specific to irritable bowel syndrome , commonly known as IBS
Additional symptoms common to women may involve:
Menstruation
Fibromyalgia can affect the menstrual cycle. Periods may be heavier, and women may experience painful menstruation, which is called dysmenorrhea.
Pregnancy
Many women with fibromyalgia have no problems during pregnancy, but in some cases, pregnancy can worsen symptoms of the condition.
Also, fibromyalgia can lead to heightened fatigue and mood swings, which are common in pregnancy.
Consult a doctor about fibromyalgia and pregnancy, as some medication for fibromyalgia can impact the fetus.
Tender points
Tender points refer to 18 tender or painful spots in nine locations on the body. These spots are paired and located on either side of the spine, for example. Not everyone with fibromyalgia has tender points, but they can help to distinguish it from other pain conditions.
Women with fibromyalgia are more likely than men to have tender points, which are located:
at the base of the head, where it meets the neck
between the base of the neck and the tip of the shoulder
where the muscles of the back connect to the shoulder blade
on each forearm near the crease of the elbow
just above the collarbone
beneath the collarbone on the side of the breastbone
just above the bony part of the outer hip
very low on the back, above the buttocks
inside the knee
Diagnosis
Women with fibromyalgia may experience difficulty concentrating.
No test can determine whether someone has fibromyalgia. Instead, diagnosing fibromyalgia is a process of exclusion. Doctors ask about symptoms, then test for other disorders that might cause them. If no other cause can be found, a doctor will diagnose fibromyalgia.
To rule out other conditions, a doctor may perform X-rays and order bloodwork. They may also test for tender spots, ask about past injuries, and take a detailed medical history.
A diagnosis is more likely if patients have the following:
pain in certain tender areas lasting consistently for more than 3 months
a certain ranking on the widespread pain index
pain on both sides of the body, and above and below the waist
a certain level of symptom sensitivity, as determined by the examiner
While specialists and researchers still use tender points to characterize fibromyalgia, it is not always a reliable diagnostic tool, because the presence of tender points can change from day to day. Also, some doctors may apply more pressure during examinations than others.
With tender points excluded, doctors usually look for the following symptoms when diagnosing fibromyalgia:
fatigue
difficulty achieving restorative sleep because of pain
fatigue upon awakening
