['medical-news-today', '247', 'Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT', '17 natural remedies for oily hair', 'There are many ways to get rid of oily, greasy hair. These include changing how the hair is washed, the products used, and a number of natural remedies that could help. In this article, we look at 17 natural remedies that could improve the appearance of hair \xe2\x80\xa6', 'http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321552.php', 'https://cdn1.medicalnewstoday.com/content/images/hero/321/321552/321552_1100.jpg', '2018-04-20T00:00:00Z']
Read now
5. Make a hair-washing schedule
Certain times of day are better for hair washing than others, such as after a workout or first thing in the morning.
Washing the hair at night might mean that it looks greasy again by morning. Going to the gym or doing exercise creates sweat, which can make a person's hair look oily and unwashed.
Washing the hair after wearing a hat, helmet, or headscarf is also a good idea. Covering the head creates heat, causing the scalp to sweat and trapping oils.
6. Avoid over styling
Using hair straighteners and blow drying can help tame unruly hair. However, doing so can also make hair look greasy more quickly than if it was just left to dry naturally.
Avoiding straightening irons and hair dryers will also protect hair from heat damage.
7. Experiment with styles
Changing hairstyle may help to prevent oil from spreading, and improve self-esteem.
While scraping the hair back may seem like a good idea, this can cause the oils on the scalp to spread faster. People who prefer tying their hair up might think about letting it loose once in a while.
If no remedies are helping to reduce oil, a change of style could make someone feel better about their hair. In fact, oily hair can work well for some hairstyles, such as a slicked-back topknot.
8. Clean the hairbrush
A hairbrush benefits from regular cleaning, as it can pick up products, dead skin, and other debris.
If the brush is not cleaned, dirt and debris will spread through the hair the next time a person uses it. This can make freshly-washed hair immediately look dirty and greasy again.
9. Do not touch
People who play with their hair may find that it often looks greasier after they have touched it. This happens because they are transferring oil and dirt from their hands onto the hair. Also, when a person scratches, twirls or runs their hands through their hair, they stimulate the oil glands and encourage them to produce more oil.
10. Get the right products
There are plenty of products available that are specifically designed for oily hair. Many are available to purchase online . Switching shampoos and using ones with stronger detergents may help get rid of excess oil and leave hair looking clean and healthy.
People who plan to wash their hair daily should note that these stronger shampoos can irritate the scalp. Therefore, people who wash their hair every day might find that mild baby shampoo is a better option.
11. Avoid silicone in hair products
Silicone is thought to make a person's hair smooth and shiny. However, there is a fine line between gloss and grease. If silicone builds up in the hair, it can make it look greasy, oily, and weighed down.
Silicone can also block moisture from penetrating the hair shafts, so it is advisable that people keep it out of their haircare routines when possible.
12. Use dry shampoo
Dry shampoo is a popular way to avoid washing hair every day, while preventing hair from becoming oily.
Some people may not want to wash their hair every day or find that even if they do it is greasy by the afternoon. In these cases, dry shampoo may help, as its effects occur instantly.
Dry shampoo works by soaking up excess oil from the hair. Cornstarch or baby powder can also have a similar effect, for those looking for a homemade alternative.
It is important to note that using too much dry shampoo can leave the hair feeling gritty and dirty. It should not be considered a substitute for using shampoo and water as it does not help with removing dirt and debris from the scalp.
13. Avoid certain products
People with oily hair should try to avoid products that could weigh their hair down and contribute to a greasy look. Products that claim to smooth, nourish, and condition the hair are not usually necessary and may make the situation worse.
14. Try coconut oil
While adding oil to the hair may not sound like a remedy for oily hair, coconut oil could help. Coconut oil works by lifting oil from the scalp and nourishes and conditions dry ends at the same time.
15. Wash with tea tree oil
One study found that using a shampoo containing 5 percent tea tree oil improved dandruff, helped to soothe an itchy scalp, and reduced greasiness compared with a placebo .
16. Apply witch hazel
Witch hazel can be extremely useful for people with greasy hair. It helps to close the pores that produce oil.
Witch hazel can also relieve itching and inflammation and helps to restore a natural pH balance on the scalp. It is a gentle solution for people with sensitive scalps too.
17. Tackle with tea
Green tea could help keep hair looking healthy and grease-free, according to small-scale studies . It works by reducing oil production and also nourishes skin when applied to it.
Using shampoo containing green tea extract could help people to reduce the oiliness of their hair.
Takeaway
Oily hair can lead to people feeling less good about their appearance. It can also cause the scalp to become itchy and uncomfortable.
Fortunately, there are plenty of simple, natural remedies to help combat oily hair.
People should be aware that the quantity of oil that their hair produces can change over time. Some people may find that their hair becomes naturally less greasy with age.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
