['medical-news-today', '248', 'Karen Gill, MD', 'How long does pink eye last? 7 signs you are still contagious', 'Pink eye is a relatively common eye condition. There are many potential causes, but one of the most significant problems is how not to spread the condition to others. There are different types of pink eye, which can change the length of contagiousness. Knowin\xe2\x80\xa6', 'http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321551.php', 'https://cdn1.medicalnewstoday.com/content/images/hero/321/321551/321551_1100.jpg', '2018-04-20T00:00:00Z']
What should a person do with unused makeup?
Makeup and any products used on or near the eyes should be thrown away if:
it was applied during or just prior to an infection
it is old and dirty
It is better to buy new makeup than risk using tainted makeup that could spread an infection.
Should contact lenses be thrown out?
People are unlikely to want to wear their contact lenses when they have pink eye.
Disposable lenses worn either right before or during an infection should be thrown out. Hard lenses should be cleaned thoroughly before being used again.
People can also help prevent infections by using only sterile contact solution to store their contacts and cleaning their hands before inserting or removing them.
What should I do if my newborn has pink eye?
Parents should take a newborn baby to be seen by a doctor if the infant develops pink eye. Persistent, watery discharge may be due to a blocked tear duct, but the eye will not usually be red. A blocked tear duct will often clear up on its own.
In other cases in newborns, there may be a more serious infection that requires medical attention.
How can I prevent pink eye?
Washing hands before inserting or removing contacts is recommended.
Avoiding pink eye can be tricky, as it is highly contagious. People should try to avoid close contact with anyone who has pink eye until their symptoms have cleared.
Everyone can take precautions, such as:
not touching or rub eyes
washing hands well, especially before inserting or removing contacts
not sharing personal items
keeping contacts and glasses thoroughly clean
washing clothes, towels, and pillowcases regularly
staying at home when infected
Takeaway
Though common and sometimes painful, pink eye is not often a major concern. People should avoid others until their symptoms clear, as it is very contagious when caused by an infection.
Most people are safe to go back to work, school, or daycare once symptoms have cleared. Treatment is often only required in severe cases, or when the infection does not clear on its own.
Related coverage
