['medical-news-today', '250', 'Ana Sandoiu', 'How to beat psoriasis at its own game', 'Harnessing the power of immune cells, researchers create a compound that successfully treats psoriasis in mice. The innovative approach may also treat MS.', 'http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321561.php', 'https://cdn1.medicalnewstoday.com/content/images/hero/321/321561/321561_1100.jpg', '2018-04-20T00:00:00Z']
Login
Sign in
Log in with your Medical News Today account to create or edit your custom homepage, catch-up on your opinions notifications and set your newsletter preferences.
Register for a free account
Sign up for a free Medical News Today account to customize your medical and health news experiences.
Register
How to beat psoriasis at its own game
Published
Fact checked by Jasmin Collier
Scientists have now derived a compound from the body's own immune cells and used it to successfully treat psoriasis in mice. The way the compound works with the body's immune system makes it a potential candidate for treating other autoimmune disorders as well, such as rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis.
Psoriasis may be soon treated using the body's own immune cells.
Psoriasis is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system does not recognize its own tissue and starts attacking it.
This accelerates the growth cycle of skin cells, which causes them to accumulate in excess over the skin's surface.
In the United States, around 6.7 million adults have this condition, for which there is yet no cure.
But new research offers hope, as scientists at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, MO, reveal a new way to use the body's own immunity to fight psoriasis.
The researchers  led by Maxim Artyomov, an assistant professor of pathology and immunology at the university  found that a compound blocks an inflammatory pathway that is involved in many other autoimmune disorders.
The findings were published in the journal Nature.
Itaconate and the 'dark side' of IL-17
In previous research , a team led by the same Artyomov showed that inflammatory immune cells called macrophages produce significant amounts of itaconate when they detect bacteria.
They have also shown that, interestingly, itaconate has an anti-inflammatory effect when these macrophages are activated.
To illuminate the mechanisms behind this observation, they treated macrophages from both mice and humans with dimethyl itaconate, which is a version of itaconate that makes it easier to permeate through the cells' membrane.
