['national-geographic', '266', 'Marie McGrory, Rachel Brown', '5 Places to See a Symphony for Our World', "Celebrate Earth Day in style with Nat Geo's unique visual concert\xe2\x80\x94then head to one of these cities to soak up more of our planet's amazing sights and sounds.", 'https://www.nationalgeographic.com/travel/lists/things-to-do-music-cities-symphony-for-our-world.html', 'https://www.nationalgeographic.com/content/dam/travel/2018-digital/symphony-for-our-world-cities/symphony-for-our-world-chicago.jpg', '2018-04-21T05:00:17.5619267Z']
Awe-Inspiring Architecture Around the World
Atlanta
Georgia s ever-growing capital saw 53 million visitors in 2017 . Some of the city's staples, like the Georgia Aquarium , are undergoing major expansion.
And for your nature fix, beginning May 5, the popular exhibit Imaginary Worlds returns to the 30-acre Atlanta Botanical Garden . Visit the new permanent living sculptures, including the beloved Earth Goddess , and enjoy new, never-before-seen topiary models.
See Symphony for Our World in Atlanta on October 25.
Chicago
While others debate the origins of the Windy City moniker , cosmo lovers can spend the day at the Adler Planetarium , located off Burnham Harbor. Take a guided tour of the Atwood Sphere to see the stars Chicago saw in 1913before light pollution rendered many invisible to the naked eye. After the planetarium, spend some time enjoying the other 91 acres of Northerly Island , where the walking path makes for great views of the Chicago skyline.
View Images
The Chicago skyline glows from the top of the John Hancock Center. Visitors can admire it from ground level on Northerly Island.
Photograph by Rdiger Nehmzow, laif, Redux
See Symphony for Our World in Chicago on November 17.
Vancouver
Vancouver , once of the most densely populated cities in Canada , seems to have it all. A bustling metropolitan area is surrounded by beaches, mountains, and the world-famous Stanley Park . The park offers miles of trails to walk or bike, First Nations totem poles, and an aquarium. The forests, wetlands and rocky shores that make up the park attract a range of wildlife including bald eagles , harbor seals, and over 200 species of birds.
See Symphony for Our World in Vancouver on November 30 .
Salt Lake City
Unsurprisingly, Salt Lake City's main natural attraction is the Great Salt Lake . The 1,700-square-mile basin, remnant of an ancient inland sea, is the Western Hemisphere's largest saltwater lake, and it shelters millions of native and migrating birdsas well as tourists drawn to sail, swim, and hike. The state capital's myriad ski resorts also welcome over four million visitors a year.
View Images
Rolling hills lead to Salt Lake City, home to the Western Hemisphere's largest saltwater lake.
Photograph by Christian Heeb, laif, Redux
If the city's nature offerings just aren't cutting it, each of Utah 's "Mighty Five" national parks where painted canyons and otherworldly rock formations are sure to awe and inspireis about a four hour drive away.
