['national-geographic', '268', 'Stephen Leahy', "These Countries Changed Their Names. Here's How It Worked Out.", "Swaziland's change to eSwatini is the latest in a series of shifts in country names around the world. Here's a look back at some of the most famous.", 'https://news.nationalgeographic.com/2018/04/swaziland-changes-name-eswatini-other-country-name-changes-history-culture-spd.html', 'https://news.nationalgeographic.com/content/dam/news/2018/04/20/swaziland-name-change/swaziland-name-change-king.jpg', '2018-04-21T05:00:16.8102029Z']
How You Can Participate in Earth Day
In another recent country name change, Cape Verdea nation of 10 islands and a half million people in the central Atlantic Oceanbecame Cabo Verde in 2013. The new name is actually the original name Portuguese sailors gave the uninhabited islands in 1444. Cabo Verde means green cape.
Perhaps the most complex series of country name changes revolves around a central European country that no longer exists. Yugoslavia was first cobbled together out of the wreckage of World War I and was officially called the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes. In 1929 it was renamed the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Following World War II, a communist government took control and renamed it the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia. In 1963 it was renamed again as the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Destination: Southern Africa
Southern Africa holds something for every traveler and budget. Explore a world-class cosmopolitan city or take a world-class safari. Here you'll find some of the world's wildest places and rarest creatures.
Following the collapse of the Soviet Union and a series of brutal internal conflicts, Yugoslavia came apart in 1992. After various boundary changes and more conflicts, the former Yugoslavia territory is today comprised of the modern states of Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, Macedonia, and Montenegro. Serbia's Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija unilaterally declared its independence in 2008.
View Images
Istanbul was once Constantinople. So name changes aren't unique to countries.
Photograph by Jules Gervais Courtellemont, National Geographic
The Democratic Republic of Congo has also undergone many name changes. From 1885 to 1908 it was called (without intended irony) the Congo Free State while brutally ruled as a private venture by King Leopold II of Belgium. Later it became the Belgian Congo, then Congo-Leopoldville, and finally after its independence in 1960, the Republic of Congo. A few years later that was modified to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In 1971 the dictator Mobutu Sese Seko named it the Republic of Zaire, perhaps because Zaire was an alternative name for the Congo River. After the fall of Mobutu, the name was changed back to the "Democratic Republic of the Congo in 1997.
View Images
The Czech Republic recently rebranded itself as Czechia. Shown is the Old Town Bridge Tower in Prague.
Photograph by Robert Harding Picture Library
Other significant name changes:
Kingdom of Cambodia  Khmer Republic  Kampuchea  Cambodia (1991)
French Somaliland  Territory of the Afars and the Issas  Djibouti (1977)
Gilbert Islands  Kiribati (1979)
Portuguese Timor  East Timor  Timor-Leste (2002)
German Southwest Africa  Southwest Africa  Namibia (1990)
Upper Volta  Burkina Faso (1984)
Read More
