['national-geographic', '275', 'Simon Worrall', 'This Storm Chaser Risked It All for Tornado Research', 'Tim Samaras always wanted to be a storm chaser and he was one of the best. But then he encountered the deadly El Reno tornado of 2013.', 'https://news.nationalgeographic.com/2018/04/this-storm-chaser-risked-it-all-for-tornado-research.html', 'https://news.nationalgeographic.com/content/dam/news/2018/04/21/book-talk-twister-tornado-storm-chaser/01-book-talk-tornado-storm-chaser.jpg', '2018-04-21T05:00:06.798577Z']
How Fear Makes You Do Good Or Evil
Scientists have been trying, and failing, for decades to get data from the core of a violent tornado. As you can imagine, its an extremely dangerous place. In high-end tornadoes, winds can be in excess of 200 mph, with hurtling debris capable of skewering telephone poles. Tornadoes are also a transitory occurrence. You can see hurricanes coming days ahead. With tornadoes, we often dont know whether ones going to come down 10 minutes before, so its extremely hard to get data.
In the 90s, you had the Vortex Project , a multi-million-dollar, federally funded moon shot-like effort to understand tornadoes. They got a probe closer than anybody had by that point, but it wasnt in the heart of the tornado. So, here comes Tim, against this backdrop of scientists with PhDs from the ivory towers of meteorology and academia, and he had invented this turtle.
It is essentially an instrument package, which he made from a shell of milled steel. Conical in shape, about 6 inches tall and 20 inches across, it is roughly the size of a sedan tire and can withstand the flow field of a violent tornado. Theres an activating switch on the back; you put it in the dirt, get the hell out of the way, and come back once the tornado has gone past and collect your instrument.
You write, In the United States, the damage caused by tornadoes has outstripped that of fires, earthquakes, and floods. Explain why the Great Plains are the best breeding ground in the world for tornadoes.
According to the Congressional Research Service , tornadoes are the largest causes of economic damage in terms of destruction, except for hurricanes. The 2011 outbreak of tornadoes in Dixie Alley caused at least $27 billion in damage and something like 360 deaths. The Great Plains is an accident of geography. Almost nowhere else in the world do you have this unstable moist air mass out of the Gulf of Mexico meeting the drier air mass coming over the Rockies, along with cold polar air coming out of the North. We just happen to have a kind of geography where we have all these different air masses colliding to form more than 1,000 tornadoes per year. Our closest runner-up in the sheer number of tornadoes is Canada, and theyre not even close.
To place one of his probes, Samaras had to get as close as 500 yards to a tornado. Talk about the tension between caution and danger, and how Samaras made history in South Dakota.
Tim had always been a pretty cautious chaser, but he realized that to get an instrument into the core of a tornado you had to play a little closer to what I call no mans land. First, you have to get in front of a tornado, which is an incredibly difficult thing to do. They move at various speeds up to 40 mph, and they swerve, so you have to get really close to be sure your instrument is going to enter the core. It was a gamble he had to make time and time again.
He finally got it right in South Dakota, the titan of the plains. The Manchester, South Dakota, F4 was the largest and most violent tornado he had been confronted with. He hauls down this dirt road with the tornado closing in. He can see debris going up into the funnel, taking houses along the way. Pat Porter, the guy with him, is clearly nervous, saying, Tim, please hurry! You can hear the fear in his voice. Tim jumps out, activates the probe, plants it in the dirt, then sprints back into the vehicle and peels out as fast as he can with this tornado dropping pieces of housing insulation into the road ahead. He didnt know it then, but he had achieved what atmospheric scientists had been trying and failing to do for decades. His probe went into the core of an F4 tornado. It was a huge day.
Caught in Tornado Alley Scientist Karen Kosiba goes into the eye of the storm to investigate the 2011 tornado season.
Storm chasers are a special breed. Take us inside this arcane fraternity and discuss the paradox between their high-fiving glee and the death and destruction tornadoes cause.
Tornado chasers come from all walks of life. Ive met a number of them and its hard to find any singular demographic except, as you say, they are mostly men. The only thing they have in common is that they go out chasing one day and get bit by the bug. It is very much an addictive pursuit. But contrary to the depiction you see in the movie Twister , a lot of it is quite boring. For a week at a time you can drive thousands of miles just to see a thunderstorm that doesnt produce.
It wasnt until my third outing as a chaser that we saw a peerless tornado event in Pilgrim, Nebraska . There is definitely a moral conundrum that goes on, because later I found out we were very near a village that was almost completely destroyed. The damage looked like scenes from Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Tim finally met the ultimate storm he had been chasing near El Reno, Oklahoma, in 2013. Talk us through the events of that day, and explain why Samaras couldnt outrun this storm.
The El Reno tornado of 2013 was purpose-built to kill chasers, and Tim was not the only chaser to run into serious trouble that day. Tim and his team were driving a sedan, which was unusual. Usually, Tim would be in a large GMC diesel 4 x 4. They had three probes in the back of this sedan, which was carrying Tim, his son Paul, and his chase partner, Carl Young.
All the indicators that day were for something big, and this tornado quickly grew to immense proportions. They were south of this little town, El Reno, for the most part on dirt roads. The first link in the chain that would eventually bind them was that they were going to make this east turn, but realized it was going to lead them into dead end, and they would be out of the chase. This forced them to drive closer to the tornado than they would have preferred.
Debris was bouncing off of the sedan and Tim and Carl were well aware that this was a very bad place to be. So they made a north turn on the next dirt road that they could. About the time they got to U.S. Highway 81, the tornado was outpacing them, moving faster and faster, and getting bigger and bigger, until it was around two miles in width.
It was the worst kind of tornado to intercept. It was rain-wrapped, with a curtain of rain hanging to the north, so they couldnt see it for the most part. It was eventually moving at highway speeds, which is incredibly dangerous. And what they dont understand, and cant see, is that the tornado is beginning to hook toward them. Eventually, the rain curtains overtake them and they encounter increasing headwind speeds of 100-plus mph. But it isnt until close to the end that Tim understands how precarious their position is. The sedan is not capable of handling the extremely wet roads and high winds while carrying three grown men and three steel probes. So, eventually, their progress slows to about 20 mph. At this point, they are well within the core of the tornado.
The core is probably survivable. Its when they encounter the sub-vortex within the tornado that theyre killed. The sub-vortex fluctuates in width and has winds up to 200 mph in speed. It was a killing, lethal wind, which probably caught them by surprise. The sub-vortex slammed into their vehicle, picked it up, and its counterclockwise winds carried it northeast and deposited it in a field more than 600 feet from their starting location. Tim, his son, Paul, and his chasing partner, Carl, were all killed, probably instantly.
Climate change is affecting the frequency and strength of tornadoes. Unpack the science for us.
The science regarding climate change and tornadoes is still a little unclear. The emerging consensus is that climate change will have two impacts on the tornadoes main sources of fuel. With the warming of the oceans were going to have a higher evaporation rate, more moisture released into the air, which is a primary food source for tornadoes. Theres also research that seems to indicate that there may actually be a decrease in windsheer, which is another primary energy source for tornadoes. Tornadoes cant survive with unidirectional winds. They need converging winds. So climate change may lead to a lower number of tornadoes. But when tornadoes do occur, these outbursts may be much, much worse than anything weve seen.
Lets end with Tims legacy. Was he just a super-talented storm chaser? Or did he have a lasting impact on the scientific understanding of tornadoes?
Its inarguable that he had a lasting impact. He showed that we can get data from the core of a violent tornado and that was a huge step. Others are now following in his footsteps, like Joshua Wurman at the Center for Severe Weather Research, who is now actively going out there and deploying instruments of his own design into the cores of tornadoes. He hasnt had a direct strike yet, like Tim had, but he is working on it.
This interview was edited for length and clarity.
Simon Worrall curates Book Talk . Follow him on Twitter or at simonworrallauthor.com .

