['bleacher-report', '28', 'Matt Miller', "Matt Miller's Scouting Notebook: When, Where Will Top QBs Land in NFL Draft?", 'The biggest question among every person who follows the NFL draft or works in the industry right now is "Where will the quarterbacks go?" I actually woke up to that text from a high-level executive on Thursday morning...', 'http://bleacherreport.com/articles/2771388-matt-millers-scouting-notebook-when-where-will-top-qbs-land-in-nfl-draft', 'https://img.bleacherreport.net/img/images/photos/003/736/744/hi-res-95261b671e0fcb79b24316f181a6d922_crop_exact.jpg?w=1200&h=1200&q=75', '2018-04-20T11:21:49Z']
NFL Draft Lead WriterApril 20, 2018
Comments
Comment Bubble Icon
Butch Dill/Associated Press
The biggest question among every person who follows the NFL draft or works in the industry right now is "Where will the quarterbacks go?" I actually woke up to that text from a high-level executive on Thursday morning. The problem is, we're all waiting to see what the Cleveland Browns do with the No. 1 overall pick first.
The NFL draft is like a game of dominos in thatonce a team makes a move, there's a ripple effect that changes every pick made after it. With all the focus being on the top quarterbacks, now is a good time to look at some scenarios for each and how that could affect the first round.
Sam Darnold, USC
Range: Picks No. 1 through No. 3 overall
Darnold may very well be the first pick in the draft, but as of right now, Browns general manager John Dorsey isn't leaking his intentions. If Darnold is the first pick, the New York Giants likely select running back Saquon Barkley at No. 2 overall, and the New York Jets have to decide between Josh Allen , Josh Rosen and Baker Mayfield at No. 3.
If the Browns opt to go with Josh Allen, all the intel I've gathered says Darnold would be off the board to the Jets at No. 3. He is seen by NFL scouts as the safest and best quarterback in this class andwon't be waiting long to hear his name called Thursday night.
Josh Allen, Wyoming
Range: Picks No. 1 through No. 5 overall
Allen's exact landing spot is tough to predict, but there are multiple scenarios running around that should be addressed.
The Browns could take Allen at No. 1 overall and end his draft night wait early. And that's a scenario many in the NFL do believe could happen. One source I spoke to this week downright thinks it'll happen. If the Browns don't select Allen with the first pick, where would he go?
Allen's range is the top five picks. The Jets could consider him at No. 3, a team could trade with the Browns to move up to No. 4 for him, or he could go to the Denver Broncos at No. 5 if they keep the pick. Based on multiple conversations with teams this week, it doesn't sound like the strong-armed Wyoming quarterback gets out of the top five.
Baker Mayfield, Oklahoma
Range: Picks No. 3 through No. 5 overall
Baker himself thinks he's going in the top five ,and folks around the NFL agree. His range is thought to be between picks No. 3 and No. 5 overall, depending on when Darnold and Allen are drafted.
The expectation right now is that Darnold goes first and the Jets take Mayfield at No. 3. If it's Allen at No. 1 and Darnold at No. 3, the Denver Broncos wouldn't let him slide past the No. 5 pick. And it's likely he knows this, which is why the Heisman Trophy winner is confident saying he'll go top-five.
Stay up to date on every mock draft, big board andStick to Footballpodcastepisode throughout the season with the new B/R app .
   
Michael Conroy/Associated Press
Range: Picks No. 3 through No. 12 overall
Of the top four quarterbacks, this is the hardest range to predict. Rosen is a beautiful passer, but he frequently dealt with injuries in college and has rubbed some the wrong way off the field. Those concerns add up to make him the quarterback most likely to slide on draft day.
There is a scenario where Rosen is the Jets' pick at No. 3 overall, even if they haven't been directly linked to him by any of my NFL sources. The same goes for a team like the Miami Dolphins, Buffalo Bills or New England Patriots attempting to move up for Rosen should he slide past the No. 5 overall pick. The floor for him is pick No. 12, where the Bills are on the clock and need a quarterback.
An exact landing spot is impossible to predict right now, but all of my sources believe Rosen is still a top-15 pick on draft night.
Lamar Jackson, Louisville
Range: Picks No. 15 through No. 40
That's a huge range for Jackson, and it speaks to how polarizing his stock is around the league. A team like the Arizona Cardinals or Los Angeles Chargers could take Jackson in the first round. As of last week, I was hearing consistent information that he would be drafted in Round 1, so it is likely he'll be selected on Thursday.
Jackson's floor is pick No. 40, where the Denver Broncos could make him the quarterback of the future should he somehow last until Day 2.
The teams most likely to be interested are the Cardinals, Chargers and possibly the Saints.
Here's what else is going on this week:
News, rumors and notes from around the league
Updated Top 25 big board
Risers, fallers and sleepers
Stick to Football podcast: guest Charlie Yook, breaking down Ryan Leaf's comments on Baker Mayfield
     
The Scout's Report
MMQB's Peter King said on B/R's Simms&Lefkoe podcastthat he doesn't expect Dorseyto tip his hand before draft night. That meshes with what I've been hearing for weeks. Dorsey isn't telling anyonenot the players, not their agents and not even his top lieutenants.
 Could Florida State safetyDerwin Jamesslide on draft day? Multiple league sources believe he could hear his name called in the second half of the first round despite several calling him a true top-10 player in the class.
Mark Wallheiser/Associated Press
One more note onJames: Albert Breer ofMMQB reported the FSU safety declined a workout request from the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. This isn't common, but it has happened in the recent past because top players don't want to risk injury in the predraft process.
Last year, the first offensive tackle was drafted at No. 20 overall when the Denver Broncos added Garett Bolles. This year, according to a handful of scouts and executives, the first offensive tackle might not be drafted until the 20s again. ThreeMike McGlinchey, Connor Williams and Kolton Millerare expected to go in Round 1, but none are seen as top-15 players.
 The love for South Carolina tight end Hayden Hurst is real, according to one high-level executive I spoke to this week. Hurst, who played minor league baseball before joining the Gamecocks football team, is seen as a plug-and-play impact at the position and could be a major boost to a team in "win now" mode. B/R's Dan Pompei has a great feature on Hurst that's worth checking out.
It's hard to call any pick in this draft a lock, but word around the league is that the Atlanta Falcons love Florida defensive tackle Taven Bryan. More than any other Round 1 selection, this is the one I feel best about predicting.
 The 2017 draft saw three wide receivers taken in the top 10 picks, but that is not expected to be the case this time around. NFL decision-makers I spoke to all expect three to be the most we'll see drafted in the entire first round. Calvin Ridley and Courtland Sutton seem like locks, with either D.J. Moore or DJChark joining them.
   
