['nbc-news', '284', 'NOVALUE', 'The Week in Pictures: April 12 - 19', 'Migrants move through Mexico, Castro reign closes in Cuba, a gorilla celebrates a milestone, and more.', 'http://www.nbcnews.com/slideshow/week-pictures-april-12-19-n867586', 'https://media4.s-nbcnews.com/j/newscms/2018_16/2404766/ss-180419-twip-15_9053fe27c5b3bafb799271a55a7e0507.1200;630;7;70;5.jpg', '2018-04-20T15:09:20.9294129Z']
The Week in Pictures: April 12 - 19
Share this 
In Focus
The Week in Pictures: April 12 - 19
Migrants move through Mexico, Castro reign closes in Cuba, a gorilla celebrates a milestone, and more.
/ Updated
Share this 
Syria strikes
Missiles light up the Damascus skyas the U.S. launches an attack on Syria targeting different parts of the capital early on April 14, 2018.
The United States, France and Britain launched military strikes in Syria to punish President Bashar Assad for a suspected chemical attack against civilians and to deter him from doing it again, Trump said in his announcement the same night.
 Hassan Ammar / AP
Share
Destruction in Douma
A boy walks along a damaged street in Douma, a suburb of Damascus, Syria on April 16.
Douma was the site of a suspected poisonous gas attack on April 7 that first responders and activists say killed more than 40 people.
 Omar Sanadiki / Reuters
Share
River of grass
A boat is stranded on the grass-covered riverbed of the Poyang Lake, which has been hit by drought, in China's Jiangxi province on April 17.
Poyang Lake, once the largest freshwater lake in China, is fast drying-up and might soon become a prairie or a desert like the Aral Sea in Kazakhstan.
Chinese scientists are reporting with alarm that more parts of the lake have dried up, leaving huge swathes of grassland in areas once inundated by up to 82 feet of water. That depth has been reduced on average to only 26 feet and even this level is in danger since water levels have fallen continuously.
 Xiong guotao / Imaginechina
Share
Glacier race
Skiers climb in front of the Matterhorn mountain at the start of the 21st Glacier Patrol race in Stafel, outside the ski resort of Zermatt, Switzerland on April 17.
The Glacier Patrol, organized by the Swiss Army, takes place from April 17 to 21. Highly-experienced hiker-skiers trek for over 33 miles along the Haute Route which runs along the Swiss-Italian border from Zermatt to Verbier.
 Valentin Flauraud / Keystone via AP
Share
North Carolina tornado
Nick Sims, 18, surveys the damage to his grandmother's house in Greensboro, North Carolina on April 16 after a tornado ripped through the neighborhood, destroying several houses. Sims' grandmother was not injured.
A storm system that stretched from the Gulf Coast to the Great Lakes dumped 2 feet of snow on parts of the Upper Midwest, coated roads with ice and battered areas farther south with powerful winds.
No injuries were reported in the Carolinas, but tens of thousands of homes and businesses were without power in the storms aftermath.
 Chuck Liddy / TNS via Zuma Press
Share
Passing the torch
Cuba's new president Miguel Diaz-Canel, left, and former president Raul Castro, raise their arms after Diaz-Canel was elected as the island nation's new president, at the National Assembly in Havana, Cuba on April 19.
Castro left the presidency after 12 years in office when the National Assembly approved Diaz-Canel's nomination as the candidate for the top government position.
Castro, 86, remains head of the Communist Party as former VP Miguel Diaz-Canel becomes the first non-Castro president in over 40 years.
 Irene Perez / Cubadebate via AP
Share
Baby in the Senate
Sen. Tammy Duckworth arrives at the Capitol with her 10-day-old daughter on April 19, one day after the Senate voted to allow babies onto the chamber's floor.
Duckworth took a brief break from her maternity leave and headed to the Capitol to cast her vote in opposition to a controversial nomination. Her appearance was the second time she has made history in as many weeks. On April 9, Duckworth became the first senator to give birth while in office.
 Frank Thorp / NBC News
Share
Fooling a magpie
A zookeeper uses a puppet to imitate a bird parent as it feeds a one-month-old baby Javan green magpie at a zoo in Prague, Czech Republic on April 17.
The Javan green magpie (Cissa thalassina) is one of the world's most endangered birds.
 Martin Divisek / EPA
Share
Desert race
Competitors cross sand dunes as they take part in in the 33rd edition of Marathon des Sables, across the Sahara desert near Merzouga, southern Morocco on April 13.
 Mosa'ab Elshamy / AP
Share
Scars of war
Mave Grace, 11, who had part of her arm chopped off by militiamen when they attacked the village of Tchee, stands with her sister Racahele-Ngabausi, aged two, in an Internally Displaced Camp in Bunia, Ituri province, eastern Democratic Republic of Congo on April 12.
According to witnesses, militiamen killed her pregnant mother, her three brothers and injured her sister, Racahele-Ngabausi.
 Goran Tomasevic / Reuters
Share
Heading north
Central American migrants, moving in a caravan through Mexico, journey in an open wagon of a freight train in Hidalgo state, Mexico on April 14.
