['new-york-magazine', '298', 'Emily Yoshida', 'Mary Shelley Makes a Polite Period Drama Out of One of History\xe2\x80\x99s Wildest Teens', 'A miscast Elle Fanning leads this disappointingly bloodless would-be romance.', 'http://www.vulture.com/2018/04/mary-shelley-review.html', 'https://pixel.nymag.com/imgs/daily/vulture/2018/04/19/reviews/19-mary-shelly.w1200.h630.jpg', '2018-04-20T17:31:13.064Z']
Comment
Photo: IFC Films
At what point did the artist biopic settle into its current, cemented form? Watching Mary Shelley, the latest unsuccessful attempt to immortalize the teenage girl who created Frankenstein, it boggles the mind that anyone would try to make something mannered from her wild, sad, huge life, and yet thats what director Haifaa al-Mansour and screenwriter Emma Jensen have given us  a dismal book report that the author herself would have declared fusty. At this point, though, Im less hung up on Mansours disappointing take than with the continued inability of filmmakers to recognize how easily accessible and contemporary the concerns and events of Shelleys life were, missing every opportunity for immediacy and intimacy in between the biographical lines. Its a problem with many biopics, but this one, with its surplus of death and sex and enchantment just in the Wikipedia page , feels particularly egregious.
If were going to nitpick, the movie should be called Mary Godwin, as nearly all of its events take place before her marriage to the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley. But Mansours films centerpiece is their scandalous romance, which began when Mary was 15 or 16 and he was 21 and married with children. Its not a bad centerpiece. After a furtive courtship under her philosopher fathers nose, while Shelley offered his services as an assistant and protg, the two ran away together, taking Marys stepsister Claire Clairmont in tow. The trio faced constant money problems, always on the run from creditors. But their travels eventually brought them into the circle of the star poet Lord Byron, and a fateful summer at his villa in Switzerland where, during a ghost story challenge, Mary was inspired to write Frankenstein, arguably the first modern science-fiction novel.
This is clearly all fantastic material for a film, but the problems begin with the woeful miscasting of Elle Fanning as the title character, and continue from there. Fanning is an able young actress who, as she grows older, increasingly cant seem to stop posing. She embodies all the listless moroseness required of the original goth girl, but none of the passion; she kisses Shelley (a capably dashing Douglas Booth) like a person whos desperately afraid to look ugly. Mary had a morbid imagination, but she was not this bloodless blonde Fanning has conjured; she was almost constantly in a state of pregnancy or mourning for her ill-fated infants, the desperate sadness of her most famous novel comes from firsthand experience . The film walks through these events like its checking off items from a list, politely omitting sex scenes or the death of her first child, even though the nonverbal dramatic content of those moments should be what fuels our young heroines inspiration. (This is also another film that omits the presence of Mary and Percys second child, William, among the libertines at Byrons villa; its been incredibly hard for history to square Marys status as both a mother of a child and a godmother of science fiction.)
More appropriately cast is Bel Powley as Clairmont, a rambunctious, frequently ridiculous foil for the more reserved Mary. Perhaps because of Powleys emotive capabilities, her seduction of and abandonment by Lord Byron feels more crucial to Marys thematic inspiration; in one of Mansours wilder, more impressionistic sequences, she draws that line directly from Dr. Frankenstein spurning his monster to Byron (Tom Sturridge) physically prying Claire off of him in disgust. That relationship, barely articulated in the film at all, feels more raw and relatable than the talky, told-not-shown love between Percy and Mary. But to try to form an almost one-to-one metaphor between these young girls chasing their mercurial poets and Frankensteins monster chasing his creator  and to portray Marys novel as a declaration of independence from her lover  feels a little misled, and downright confusing when (spoiler alert for history) Mary and Percy reconcile and live together until his death.
If it wasnt clear already, youre reading a review of a subpar Mary Shelley biopic by a film critic who has happened to spend a lot of time reading and thinking about the author and her cohort, and I understand my expectations and points of reference might be a little different from the average filmgoer. But I have a hard time believing that someone with even a passing knowledge of Shelley would have the patience for such a literal, literary film. These people are not alive anymore, theres nobody to perform this kind of staid respectability for. People want to feel a connection to historical figures, not add layers of formalism between us and them. It shouldnt be this hard, especially when the figure is so electrifyingly out of time as Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin Shelley.
Tags:
