['new-york-magazine', '304', 'David Edelstein', 'Tully\xe2\x80\x99s Setup Is Subpar, But It Soon Becomes Magical', 'Something happens when the character of Tully comes: The movie contracts in a good way, deepens, and becomes very impressive.', 'http://www.vulture.com/2018/04/tully-review.html', 'https://pixel.nymag.com/imgs/daily/vulture/2018/04/16/reviews/16-tully.w1200.h630.jpg', '2018-04-20T13:43:07.294Z']
Comment
Photo: Kimberly French / Focus Features
The title character in Tully, the third collaboration between director Jason Reitman and screenwriter Diablo Cody, doesnt make her entrance until well into the film, after its established that the protagonist, Marlo (Charlize Theron), is moving from postpartum depression to postpartum desperation  and thats when the movie enters uncharted territory and comes to life.
Marlo isnt just struggling with a baby daughter. She has a disruptive young son whos on the brink of getting kicked out of elementary school, and an older daughter for whom she barely has time. Her husband, Drew (Ron Livingston), is a non-presence, sometimes literally (when traveling for his floundering business), often emotionally, always sexually. Its Marlos rich brother, Craig (Mark Duplass), who offers to pay for a night nanny, a woman wholl arrive after dark and, when required, bring the infant to its sleeping mothers breast. Marlo resists until her body and mind are frazzled  until she speaks openly of hating her decision to marry and have children. In her 20s, she was a selfish free spirit, on the spectrum (if not as extreme) as the character Theron played in Reitman and Codys Young Adult . She wishes she still had that freedom. And so arrives Tully (Mackenzie Davis), a vivacious 26-year-old with uncanny insight into Marlos divided self.
Related Stories
Mackenzie Davis on Whitewashing, Equal Pay, and Feminism
As an anti-fan of the pairs Juno and the aggressively sour second half of Young Adult, I found the setup of Tully sadly up (or down) to par. Cody often seems incapable of letting a line of dialogue  even a simple retort  rest on its merits. She adds clauses meant to make the characters more witty, but end up signaling her own insecurity. Reitman (son of the comedy director, Ivan) evidently fancies himself an edgy filmmaker, though edgy for him means scoring points off of his supporting characters (little people) to give his self-centered protagonists more stature. His movies have an ugly, Ayn Randian spirit. Tully boasts robotically unfeeling school bureaucrats; a woman who openly disapproves of the pregnant Marlo ordering a decaf because it still has a trace of caffeine (that damned liberal nanny state!); and Craigs wife (Elaine Tan), whose lethal smugness also extends to warning about hormone-packed food. She tells Tully that her boss gave her a gift of a Japanese soaking tub, to which Tully says that her boss gave her the flu. Its like Neil Simon on an off day. (Cody is capable of great one-liners, though: Hearing that Elyses daughter is performing in a school talent show, Marlo asks, Whats her talent? and Elyse says, Pilates.)
Something happens, though, when the character of Tully comes: The movie contracts in a good way, deepens, and becomes very impressive. Davis is part of that. Shes a vivid actress and fearless on camera, which doesnt mean that she overemotes, but that shes comfortable letting go, putting all her attention on the other actor; and Theron responds by loosening up and entering Daviss orbit. I dont mean to suggest that Theron is bad before that: She vividly evokes the disgust of a beautiful woman who has lost control of her body. But theres magic in her later scenes, in the way she flinches but then gives in to Tullys prying questions about her sex life, her past, her unfulfilled dreams. Its a psychic seduction, offbeat bordering on eerie  and revelatory.
The Tully-Marlo relationship is born of solipsism and inner drama, and Cody turns out to be amazingly gifted at it. Theres still the occasional grating one-liner, but she seems to be writing from her unconscious, with a first-person novelists density of insight and a dramatists keen ear. She makes Tullys nightly arrivals like the visitations of a teasing ghost  or a mermaid, who shows up in Marlos dream  and theres poetry and mystery in the younger womans words about the infant as she sends Marlo to bed: Shell grow a little overnight. So will we. Reitman is smart enough to frame these scenes naturalistically and let the actresses rhythms take over. His pacing is perfectly attuned. He and Cody subtly prepare you for Marlos desperate acting out in her later scenes and even the movies jarring final section, which is preceded by snippets of the entire Cyndi Lauper Shes So Unusual album and then punctuated by garish thrash metal.
Its possible that some critics and viewers will find Tullys resolution too soft, too domestic, and will attribute its turn away from darkness to the filmmakers desire not to have another commercial flop like Young Adult. Id prefer to think that Cody learned from Jennifer Kents The Babadook that unruly manifestations of despair can be stations on the road to mental health  or at least something that allows a person to live with her or his demons without being disabled by them. Theres no shame in saying that youve stared into the abyss and now want to play with your kids.
Tags:
