['newsweek', '307', 'NOVALUE', 'EQUIS Accredited Business Schools 2018', 'With an estimated number of 15,000 business schools worldwide, it becomes more and more challenging for prospective students to choose the right institution, especially as nearly 60 percent of future', 'http://www.newsweek.com/insights/equis-accredited-business-schools-2018', 'NOVALUE', '2018-04-21T05:00:09.2889721Z']
Advantages of Attending an EQUIS Accredited Business School
By Newsweek Educational Insight
Share
With an estimated number of 15,000 business schools worldwide, it becomes more and more challenging for prospective students to choose the right institution, especially as nearly 60 percent of future applicants seek to study outside their country of citizenship, according to the 2017 GMAC Prospective Students Survey Report.
One way to help chose is to check whether a school is accredited by a global accreditation body and meets internationally agreed quality standards. Why? Because a rigorous accreditation system doesnt just pick on a few criteria that can vary immensely from year to year. It actually gets right to the heart of the schools offerings, its ethos and value for students.
EQUIS  EFMD Quality Improvement System  is the leading international system of quality assessment, improvement and accreditation of higher education institutions in management and business administration. EQUIS has established its prestige and recognition worldwide and has accredited the top 1%  174 institutions in 41 countries  since its launch in 1997.
EQUIS accreditation ensures a rigorous quality control, benchmarking the school against international standards in terms of governance, programmes, students, faculty, research, and foremost, internationalisation, ethics, responsibility and sustainability, as well as corporate engagement. EQUIS covers all degree and non-degree programmes offered by a school, from bachelor to doctoral studies, including executive education where appropriate. Simply put, it allows students to evaluate their prospective learning experiences before embarking on a course of study.
Learn more about EQUIS at efmd.org/equis
Australia
Business schools in Australia can be proud of exceptionally qualified faculty, rigorous research as well as high living standard and interesting career opportunities for its international student body.
Australian business schools also invest in dissemination of knowledge and best practice through integrated online teaching delivery.
Being strategically positioned in the Asia Pacific region, Australia enjoys a very favourable reputation among international business degree applicants. Perhaps not surprisingly, Australia was rated the most highly as offering a sense of adventure and an attractive lifestyle, according to the 2017 Business of Branding study by CarringtonCrisp and EFMD.
The quality of Australian business schools is proven by their international accreditations and their high placement in the world rankings. Nine schools in Australia, including Melbourne Business School, Monash Business School, QUT Business School and University of Sydney Business School, have received EQUIS accreditation and are being active members of the EFMD network.
Greg Whitwell, the Dean of the University of Sydney Business School, spoke about the value of EQUIS accreditation: "We see EQUIS re-accreditation as a vote of confidence in the University of Sydney Business School's new strategic direction and an affirmation, from a peer review team whose collective experience and insights demand the utmost respect, that we have achieved quality standards that make us world class.
