['bloomberg', '31', 'Benjamin D Katz', "PokerStars Owner to Buy U.K.'s Sky Betting in $4.7 Billion Deal", 'The Stars Group Inc. agreed to buy Sky Betting & Gaming in a deal valued at $4.7 billion, the biggest acquisition yet by Chief Executive Officer Rafi Ashkenazi as the owner of PokerStars moves to create what will be the biggest publicly listed online gambling\xe2\x80\xa6', 'http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-21/pokerstars-owner-to-buy-u-k-s-sky-betting-in-4-7-billion-deal', 'https://assets.bwbx.io/images/users/iqjWHBFdfxIU/i9e8rzxqD5Ik/v0/1200x801.jpg', '2018-04-21T13:34:56Z']
PokerStars Owner to Buy Sky Betting in $4.7 Billion Deal
By
Stars Group to pay cash, stock to owners CVC Capital and Sky
CEO Ashkenazi says acquisition offers great growth potential
Photographer: Jacob Kepler/Bloomberg
Poker giant
Stars Group Inc. agreed to buy Sky Betting & Gaming in a deal valued at $4.7 billion, moving deeper into sports betting to create the biggest publicly listed online gambling company.
Toronto-based Stars Group will pay cash and stock to owners
CVC Capital Partners and
Sky Plc , it said Saturday in a
statement . The operator of PokerStars estimates it would get about a third of its revenue from sports, the fastest-growing online gaming segment, including recent acquisitions in Australia.
Sky Betting & Gamings premier sports betting product is the ideal complement to our industry-leading poker platform, Chief Executive Officer Rafi Ashkenazi said in the statement, calling the acquisition a landmark moment for Stars Group.
The agreement calls on Stars Group to pay $3.6 billion and approximately 37.9 million newly issued common shares based on the closing price of its common stock on April 20. Stars Group said it has obtained debt financing of approximately $6.9 billion, including $5.1 billion of first lien term loans, $1.4 billion of senior unsecured notes and a $400 million revolving credit facility. The proceeds will be used for the cash portion of the deal, as well as to refinance the companys existing first lien term loan and repay SBGs outstanding debt, it said.
After its
failed attempt to take control of Sky-rival William Hill Plc, Stars Group is gaining a significant foothold in the U.K. -- the largest regulated gaming market -- and a trove of potential new customers for its online casino and poker offerings. The acquisition also helps accelerate Ashkenazis strategy to decrease reliance on the unstable poker business, which accounted for two-thirds of revenue last year.
From Poker King to Gaming Giant
Stars Group's M&A push decreases reliance on poker
Source: Stars Group
Note: as a percentage of revenue, 2017 and 2017 if recent acquisitions were included
The strategic fit is very good, the valuation is reasonable for a fast-growing company, said Simon Davies, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in London. And the combined company will be better placed to exploit the opening of the U.S. sports-betting market.
Betting on sports in some form is legal in four U.S. states. That could change as the U.S. Supreme Court
weighs New Jerseys attempt to have a 1992 law banning sports betting struck down as unconstitutional. If the court agrees, it could trigger a wave of states legalizing betting on football, basketball and other competitions.
Private equity firm CVC agreed to acquire a controlling stake in Sky Betting from Rupert Murdochs Sky in 2014. Canaccords Davies says the betting company, which gets more than 80 percent of its revenue from mobile devices, has performed spectacularly despite concerns of a tighter regulatory environment in the U.K.
Cash Infusion
The deal will also bring Sky a cash infusion as it is targeted for
takeover by both 21st Century Fox Inc. and Comcast Corp. While Fox awaits a U.K. regulatory decision on its bid, Comcast is preparing to formalize its own offer after making a preliminary one at a premium to Foxs, setting the stage for a bidding war.
The agreement follows a move last month by Stars Group to take a
bigger slice of Australias
CrownBet Holdings Ltd. , which subsequently bought the Australian unit of
William Hill.
Ashkenazi
signaled last year that hed be on the hunt for targets after focusing on paying down debt from the 2014, $4.9 billion acquisition of PokerStars that made the company, then called Amaya, the worlds largest online poker business. Ashkenazi took over the top job from founder David Baazov -- who
resigned in August 2016 to fight insider-trading charges -- and built up a new management team.
Morgan Stanley and PJT Partners Inc. acted as financial advisers to Stars Group, while Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Macquarie Group Ltd. and Morgan Stanley provided the committed debt financing.
(An earlier version of the story corrected Sky Betting & Gamings name, and the month of the CEO change.)
 With assistance by Rebecca Penty, and Kenneth Pringle
Quotes from this Article
