['newsweek', '311', 'Gillian Edevane', 'What\'s a "sanctuary county" for gun owners? Leaders plan to irk liberals and block gun control', 'One county leader who voted in favor of the resolution dismissed the activism of Parkland students, saying they "still wear diapers."', 'http://www.newsweek.com/sanctuary-county-guns-ar15-895823', 'http://s.newsweek.com/sites/www.newsweek.com/files/styles/full/public/2018/04/20/santcuary-guns.jpg', '2018-04-20T20:38:33Z']
In Pictures: The 50 Most Powerful Military Forces in the World
Dave Campbell, an Effingham County board member who helped draft the measure, told Newsweek that the resolution served two purposes: irk progressives by borrowing the term sanctuary from immigrant rights bills, and reassure gun owners that county leaders have not been swayed by the recent surge in gun control activism.
AR-15 semi-automatic guns are on display for sale at Action Target on June 17, 2016 in Springville, Utah. In Illinois, some counties are taking steps to protect against possible gun control legislation. George Frey/Getty Images
If our legislators can pass a sanctuary state bill for immigrants, why can't we have a sanctuary county for firearms for Effingham County? Campbell questioned, recalling a conversation he had with Bryan Kibler, the State's Attorney representing the county. So, thats what we decided to do.
Keep up with this story and more by subscribing now
But, Campbell said, no, it doesnt technically change anything.
Campbell acknowledged that the term sanctuary was adopted to bring attention to the cause and inflame passions on both sides of the political aisle. In Iroquois County, the final version of the resolution dropped the word, although the nickname stuck and has been used by supporters.
Iroquois County board member Chad McGinnis said he drafted the resolution mostly to flip the script on the larger cities inIllinois, which he described as controlling the dialogue in the state.
Were tired of Springfield and Chicago forgetting about the rest of Illinois over here, McGinnis said. So, this was us sending a message.
His colleague on the board, Dan Pursley, was more forceful in his condemnation of the activism happening across the countryinspired by students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, where a teenager with a legally purchased AR-15 allegedly killed 14 students and three teachers.Since the massacre, polls have shown that the American public generally cares more about gun control and more forcefully supports a ban on some types of firearms.
Pursley doesnt count himself in that group, not even a bit. He said he loves his AR-15, even though he's never taken it out of the box.
No, we don't like them attacking our Second Amendment, and we wont have that here, he said. When asked if he thought the Parkland students were making headway in their fight for gun control, he quickly dismissed the idea.
These kids, activists?" he said, chuckling. Please, they are absolutely children. Most of them still wear diapers."
