['nhl-news', '336', 'Robby Stanley', 'Avalanche top Predators in Game 5, extend Western series', 'NASHVILLE -- Sven Andrighetto scored with 1:28 remaining in the third period, and the Colorado Avalanche avoided elimination with a 2-1 win against the Nashville Predators in Game 5 of their Western Conference First Round series at Bridgestone Arena on Friday\xe2\x80\xa6', 'https://www.nhl.com/news/colorado-avalanche-nashville-predators-game-5-recap/c-298164678', 'https://nhl.bamcontent.com/images/photos/298165052/1024x576/cut.jpg', '2018-04-21T04:43:24Z']
Avalanche top Predators in Game 5, extend Western series
Andrighetto breaks tie late in third period, Hammond gets first NHL playoff win for Colorado
by                                             Robby Stanley / NHL.com Correspondent
NASHVILLE -- Sven Andrighetto scored with 1:28 remaining in the third period, and the Colorado Avalanche avoided elimination with a 2-1 win against the Nashville Predators in Game 5 of their Western Conference First Round series at Bridgestone Arena on Friday.
J.T. Compher took the original shot and Andrighetto scored on the rebound to break a 1-1 tie.

[WATCH: All Avalanche vs. Predators highlights | Complete Predators vs. Avalanche series coverage ]

"It's fun," Andrighetto said. "Coming back from 1-0, even when we got the goal against we knew it wasn't over. We believed in us, and that's a huge thing in our group in here. We believe in ourselves, and we came back in time."
The Predators lead the best-of-7 series 3-2. Game 6 is at Colorado on Sunday.
"We got the lead with nine minutes left and with four minutes left we have to close games," Nashville forward Nick Bonino said. "Hats off to them, they didn't stop working. We knew how hard it would be, and for stretches of that game we didn't play our best hockey."
Video: COL@NSH, Gm5: Hammond stops 44 in first playoff win
Andrew Hammond made 44 saves in his first start of the series for Colorado. It was his first NHL playoff win.
"You want to play meaningful hockey," Hammond said. "When the games mean more, I think I try and take my game to another level, and obviously I was able to do that tonight. The guys just kept battling, didn't waver. Even when we got down 1-0 I think we were playing the right way, so I just think it speaks to the character we have here and the no quit. That's the same approach I expect for Game 6 now."
Gabriel Landeskog tied the game 1-1 at 15:49 of the third period. Nathan MacKinnon held the puck long enough to find Landeskog, who scored his fourth goal.
"We've got a series again going home, and it's going to be exciting," Landeskog said. "This is what we talked about before tonight, just to win one. We don't have to win three in one night. We've just got to win one, take it back to Denver and then we'll take it from there."
Bonino gave the Predators a 1-0 lead at 10:18 of the third period on a rebound. Mattias Ekholm took the original shot, and the puck deflected off Bonino's right skate for his first goal.
The goal was originally waved off because of a kicking motion but was overturned after video review.
"[Hammond] is a good goalie with good numbers," Bonino said. "It's not a mistake he's in the net right now. We've just got to get to the net and get some greasy goals."
Pekka Rinne made 25 saves for the Predators.
