['nhl-news', '339', 'Scott Billeck', 'Jets shut out Wild in Game 5 for first series win', 'WINNIPEG -- The Winnipeg Jets won a series in the Stanley Cup Playoffs for the first time with a 5-0 victory against the Minnesota Wild in Game 5 of the Western Conference First Round at Bell MTS Place on Friday.Connor Hellebuyck made 30 saves for his second \xe2\x80\xa6', 'https://www.nhl.com/news/minnesota-wild-winnipeg-jets-game-5-recap/c-298160340', 'https://nhl.bamcontent.com/images/photos/298160484/1024x576/cut.jpg', '2018-04-21T02:20:19Z']
Jets shut out Wild in Game 5 for first series win
Hellebuyck makes 30 saves in second straight shutout; will face Predators or Avalanche next
by                                             Scott Billeck                                                                                                                                   / NHL.com Correspondent
WINNIPEG -- The Winnipeg Jets won a series in the Stanley Cup Playoffs for the first time with a 5-0 victory against the Minnesota Wild in Game 5 of the Western Conference First Round at Bell MTS Place on Friday.

[WATCH: All Wild vs. Jets highlights | Complete Jets vs. Wild series coverage ]

Connor Hellebuyck made 30 saves for his second consecutive shutout. The Wild failed to score in the final seven periods of the series.
Mark Scheifele had a goal and an assist, and Jacob Trouba, Bryan Little, Brandon Tanev and Joel Armia scored for the Jets, who outscored the Wild 12-3 at home. Winnipeg has won 12 straight here.
The Jets scored four goals in the first 11:59 of the first period.
"I thought the team was great in front of me," Hellebuyck said. "The guys' details are fantastic. Anytime you can get that many (goals) in the first period, that kind of sinks the other team, especially deep in a series like this. They definitely got this one early."
The Jets will play the winner of the series between the Nashville Predators and Colorado Avalanche. The Predators' lead in that series was cut to 3-2 following the Avalanche's 2-1 win Friday.
Video: #ThirstForTheCup: Jets advance to Second Round
Trouba gave the Jets a 1-0 lead 31 seconds into the first period on a wrist shot from the right face-off circle. Little made it 2-0 off a deflection in the slot at 5:42.
"I think when you have the opportunity to eliminate somebody, you want to jump on them as fast and hard as possible," Winnipeg captain Blake Wheeler said. "I think teams on the brink come in with hope, and the faster you take it away from them, you know, you can kind of squash them a little bit."
Video: MIN@WPG, Gm5: Jets and Wild exchange handshakes
The Jets went up 3-0 after Tanev forced a turnover in the slot and scored on a wrist shot at 11:10. Armia made it 4-0 on a deflection 49 seconds later.
"I thought we were rattled," Wild coach Bruce Boudreau said. "I mean, we couldn't handle the puck very well. We weren't making our passes in the first 10 minutes. Looked like we were nervous out there, and they obviously took advantage of that."
Devan Dubnyk was pulled after allowing four goals on 10 shots. Alex Stalock made 14 saves in relief.
Video: MIN@WPG, Gm5: Jets strike early with four-goal 1st
"It [stinks] having that as the last thing that you're going to think about and feel after a hard-fought season and a hard-fought series," Dubnyk said. "It certainly wasn't how the series went, and it [stinks] that that's going to be the last thing that we'll remember from the series."
Scheifele scored on the power play 32 seconds into the third period to make it 5-0.
"It just seems like everything went down in a hurry," Wild forward Charlie Coyle said. "They made some good plays. I think we kind of made it easy on them. They had odd-man rushes the other way and got in our zone and made us pay right away. It's definitely not the start we wanted. It's a tough one to come back from."

