['associated-press', '34', 'BRIAN MELLEY and MICHAEL BALSAMO', "Trump lawyer must say why he wants porn star's case delayed", "LOS ANGELES (AP) \xe2\x80\x94 President Donald Trump's personal lawyer must declare in writing that his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination may be jeopardized if legal proceedings aren't delayed in a lawsuit filed by porn actress Stormy Daniels, a judge sai\xe2\x80\xa6", 'https://apnews.com/ac37ca57ebf44982b60bb79157c35d32', 'https://storage.googleapis.com/afs-prod/media/media:7f7a3e6c4aac4284bce647248adf6537/3000.jpeg', '2018-04-21T02:06:44Z']

Michael Avenatti, attorney for porn actress Stormy Daniels, talks to the media outside court in Los Angeles Friday, April 20, 2018.  A federal judge told lawyers for President Donald Trump's attorney Michael Cohen that Cohen needs to file a declaration in court in order to delay a lawsuit filed by Daniels aimed at dissolving a confidentiality agreement that prevents her from talking about an alleged affair with Trump.  (AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes)
Attorney Brent Blakely, left, who represents President Donald Trump's attorney Michael Cohen, with Trump's attorneys Ryan Stonerock, middle, and Charles Harder, right, leave U.S. District Court for the Central District of California after a hearing regarding adult-film actress Stephanie Clifford, also known as Stormy Daniels, in Los Angeles, Friday, April 20, 2018. A federal judge in Los Angeles has told Cohen's lawyers that he needs to file a declaration in court in order to delay a lawsuit filed by Daniels. (AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes)
Michael Avenatti, attorney for Stormy Daniels,  talks to the media outside court in Los Angeles Friday, April 20, 2018.  A federal judge told lawyers for President Donald Trump's attorney Michael Cohen that Cohen needs to file a declaration in court in order to delay a lawsuit filed by porn actress Stormy Daniels aimed at dissolving a confidentiality agreement that prevents her from talking about an alleged affair with Trump.  (AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes)
Stormy Daniels' attorney, Michael Avenatti talks to the media outside federal court in Los Angeles Friday, April 20, 2018. A federal judge on Friday told lawyers for President Donald Trump's attorney Michael Cohen that Cohen needs to file a declaration in court in order to delay a lawsuit filed by porn actress Stormy Daniels aimed at dissolving a confidentiality agreement that prevents her from talking about an alleged affair with Trump. (AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes)
FILE - In this April 16, 2018, file photo, adult film actress Stormy Daniels speaks outside federal court in New York. A federal judge is set to hear arguments about whether to delay the case of Daniels, who claims she had an affair with President Donald Trump, after federal agents raided the president's personal lawyer's office and residence. U.S. District Judge James Otto will hold the hearing Friday, April 20, 2018, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer, file)
FILE - In this April 16, 2018, file photo, Stormy Daniels arrives at federal court in New York to attend a court hearing where a federal judge is considering how to review materials that the FBI seized from President Donald Trump's personal lawyer to determine whether they should be protected by attorney-client privilege. A federal judge is set to hear arguments about whether to delay the case of Daniels, who claims she had an affair with President Donald Trump, after federal agents raided the president's personal lawyer's office and residence. U.S. District Judge James Otto will hold the hearing Friday, April 20, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig, File)
FILE - In this April 16, 2018, file photo, porn actress Stormy Daniels, accompanied by her attorney, Michael Avenatti, left, leaves federal court, in New York. A federal judge is set to hear arguments about whether to delay the case of Daniels, who claims she had an affair with President Donald Trump, after federal agents raided the president's personal lawyer's office and residence. U.S. District Judge James Otto will hold the hearing Friday, April 20, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig, File)
Attorney Brent Blakely, middle, who represents President Donald Trump's attorney Michael Cohen, walks with Trump attorneys Charles Harder, left, and Ryan Stonerock, right, as they leave U.S. District Court for the Central District of California after a hearing regarding adult-film actress Stephanie Clifford, also known as Stormy Daniels, in Los Angeles, Friday, April 20, 2018. A federal judge in Los Angeles has told Cohen's lawyers that he needs to file a declaration in court in order to delay a lawsuit filed by Daniels. (AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes)
Outside a California court on Friday, Stormy Daniels' attorney Michael Avenatti said he was confident that the civil case would move forward without delay. He also stated his belief that Michael Cohen will plead the Fifth Amendment. (April 20)

Outside a California court on Friday, Stormy Daniels' attorney Michael Avenatti said he was confident that the civil case would move forward without delay. He also stated his belief that Michael Cohen will plead the Fifth Amendment. (April 20)
By BRIAN MELLEY and MICHAEL BALSAMO
Today
