['nhl-news', '341', 'Brian McNally', '5 Keys: Blue Jackets at Capitals, Game 5', 'The Washington Capitals will try to take the lead for the first time in their Eastern Conference First Round series against the Columbus Blue Jackets at Capital One Arena on Saturday.', 'https://www.nhl.com/news/columbus-blue-jackets-washington-capitals-game-5-preview/c-298156724', 'https://nhl.bamcontent.com/images/photos/298157606/1024x576/cut.jpg', '2018-04-21T00:33:00Z']
5 Keys: Blue Jackets at Capitals, Game 5
Columbus eyes third straight road win; Washington looking to take series lead for first time
by                                             Brian McNally                                                                                                                                   / NHL.com Correspondent
BLUE JACKETS at CAPITALS
3 p.m. ET; NBC, NBCSN, SN, TVAS
Best-of-7 series tied 2-2
WASHINGTON -- The Washington Capitals will try to take the lead for the first time in their Eastern Conference First Round series against the Columbus Blue Jackets at Capital One Arena on Saturday.

[RELATED: Complete Capitals vs. Blue Jackets series coverage ]

The Capitals tied the best-of-7 series 2-2 with a 4-1 win in Game 4 at Columbus on Thursday. Neither team has won a home game.
Here are 5 keys for Game 5:

1. An early goal
The Blue Jackets have fallen behind 2-0, 2-0, 1-0 and 3-0 in the first four games. They rallied to win the first two but are making things harder on themselves. Columbus needs to make Washington chase for once.
"It'd be nice to get on the score sheet first," Blue Jackets forward Cam Atkinson said. "But we're a resilient club. You're never out of the fight until the final whistle."

2. Improved Capitals penalty kill
The Blue Jackets scored on four of their first eight power plays in the series, but their last man-advantage goal was at 18:52 of the second period in Game 2 by defenseman Zach Werenski. The Capitals have killed eight in a row.
"There's adjustments, triggers and commitment level," Washington coach Barry Trotz said. "When they all come together you're going to have better success. If you're missing one of those elements  you'll be frustrated because one part of it broke down and the puck usually winds up in the back of the net."

3. More secondary scoring
The top players have produced for each team. Washington's top two lines have 23 points, Columbus' have 20. The Capitals' third and fourth lines have six points, and the Blue Jackets' have five. Which team will get offense from the bottom six Saturday?

4. Get to Holtby
Capitals goalie Braden Holtby has looked like his old self since coming into the series in the third period of Game 2, making 63 saves on 67 shots. The Blue Jackets were somewhat unlucky with pucks off the post in Games 3 and 4.
"There were still times where I would've liked to play a few of them better," Holtby said. "I got fortunate on a couple."

5. Keep Panarin under wraps
The Capitals struggled with Blue Jackets forward Artemi Panarin, who had two goals and five assists through the first three games. But they swarmed him in Game 4 and dropped into a version of the neutral zone trap that left Columbus flustered.
"I don't think frustration is an emotion that is beneficial," Columbus defenseman Ian Cole said.

Artemi Panarin -- Pierre-Luc Dubois -- Cam Atkinson
Sonny Milano -- Brandon Dubinsky -- Oliver Bjorkstrand
Boone Jenner -- Nick Foligno -- Josh Anderson
Matt Calvert - Mark Letestu -- Thomas Vanek
Zach Werenski -- Seth Jones
