['polygon', '365', 'Samit Sarkar', 'NBA Playgrounds sequel coming this summer', 'Better online play is a focus this time', 'https://www.polygon.com/2018/4/17/17248480/nba-playgrounds-2-switch-ps4-xbox-one-pc-trailer', 'https://cdn.vox-cdn.com/thumbor/qvyPOweBBvEtAQCNu_qNKuOmtqI=/0x38:1920x1043/fit-in/1200x630/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/10669799/NBAPlaygrounds2_Screen_3_1920.jpg', '2018-04-17T21:06:49Z']
Saber Interactive/Mad Dog Games
Saber Interactive/Mad Dog Games
NBA Playgrounds 2 will launch with a roster of more than 200 current and retired NBA players. Heres a sampling of the list from Saber: Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, James Harden, Kyrie Irving, LeBron James, Russell Westbrook, Giannis Antetokounmpo, Anthony Davis, DeMar DeRozan, Damian Lillard, Karl-Anthony Towns, Shaquille ONeal, Earvin Magic Johnson, Julius Dr. J Erving, Allen Iverson and Larry Bird. As in the original game, players will unlock new athletes by earning packs of virtual cards.
Related
NBA Playgrounds bizarre Nintendo Switch patch situation, explained (update)
Although NBA Playgrounds was a commercial success  Saber said in late July 2017, about two and a half months after release, that it had sold half a million copies of the game  it did not find many fans among reviewers . The game drew criticism at launch for shortcomings such as inept AI teammates (and robotically perfect AI opponents), a punishing stamina mechanic, confusing shot timing and a bare-bones feature set .
NBA Playgrounds was released simultaneously on Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows PC and Xbox One, but the Switch version did not offer online play at launch. Saber was not able to patch in the feature until mid-July , and later re-released the game on Switch in an Enhanced Edition to bring it up to par with the other versions.
NBA Playgrounds 2, which is being published by Mad Dog Games, is set for release this summer on PC, PS4, Switch and Xbox One. You can see the games debut trailer and three screenshots above.
Update (April 20): Saber Interactive said in an email to Polygon that it is committed to not repeating the mishandled launch of the original NBA Playgrounds.
I can say with confidence that all four platforms are in parity feature-wise, and that our plan right now is to release all four platforms on the same day, said Saber CEO Matthew Karch.
Karch once again apologized for the delayed release of online play for the Switch version of NBA Playgrounds, saying that the circumstances werent entirely within our ability to dictate but that our mistake was not being more upfront about everything that was happening. He also reiterated that Saber will give a free copy of Shaq Fu: A Legend Reborn to anybody who bought the Switch version of NBA Playgrounds before June 10, 2017.
We came at NBA Playgrounds 2 with a long list of features and improvements we wanted to deliver
As for why Saber is making NBA Playgrounds 2 instead of continuing to release downloadable content for the original game, Karch said, We definitely hit a point where it became clear itd be substantially difficult to keep adding onto the first game on all platforms with feature parity, so we chose to start fresh across the board.
We came at NBA Playgrounds 2 with a long list of features and improvements we wanted to deliver, as well as the lessons we learned from the original, all of which combine to make this sequel feel warranted, and we hope fans agree when they get their hands on it, Karch added.
The full roster for NBA Playgrounds 2 will feature over 400 players, according to Karch, up from the 325 or so that were eventually released for the first game. Karch affirmed to Polygon that the sequel will, like its predecessor, allow players to buy an unlock code for the entire roster  an item that over 150,000 customers bought for the $9.99 asking price. Karch is actually hoping that fewer people purchase it in NBA Playgrounds 2.
Strange as it sounds, my personal hope is players enjoy the huge improvements weve made to the progression system, and that results in a lower overall adoption of the unlock this time around, said Karch.
More From Polygon
