['reddit-r-all', '374', 'https://www.facebook.com/bbcnews', "North Korea 'halts missile and nuclear tests'", "North Korean leader Kim Jong-un's announcement comes a week before a summit with South Korea.", 'http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-43846488', 'https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/1024/branded_news/9C5B/production/_100972004_gettyimages-842418008.jpg', '2018-04-21T00:37:48.946419Z']
Media playback is unsupported on your device
Media captionThe news was announced on North Korean state TV
China, North Korea's main ally, also welcomed the move, saying it would "help ameliorate the situation on the peninsula".
Why has Pyongyang halted tests?
The decision to suspend missile launches was made during a meeting of the ruling party's central committee on Friday, the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) said.
In a statement quoted by the agency, Mr Kim said it was no longer necessary to conduct missile tests because "nuclear weaponisation" had been achieved.
"The northern nuclear test site has completed its mission," he said.
This echoes a previous statement made during a New Year address in which Mr Kim declared his nuclear and ballistic missile programmes completed .
After six nuclear tests North Korea may feel it does not need to upgrade its existing designs, says the BBC's Laura Bicker in Seoul.
Although Pyongyang said it would abolish its nuclear test site, there is no indication it is planning to get rid of its existing weapons.
The decision to halt missile tests is also aimed at pursuing economic growth, according to KCNA. Mr Kim reportedly pledged to "concentrate all efforts" on developing a socialist economy during Friday's meeting.
Media playback is unsupported on your device
Media captionHow would war with North Korea unfold?
The summit is the prize
By Ankit Panda, senior fellow at the Federation of American Scientists
These concessions from North Korea have come before the two anticipated summits with the US and South Korea.
One may wonder why Mr Kim should give up so much in advance instead of hanging on to a nuclear test-ban and an ICBM moratorium as aces up his sleeve.
The answer is simple: a summit with a US president is enough of a prize in itself. For Mr Kim, it's something that neither his grandfather nor his father could attain.
What North Korea loses by demolishing its nuclear test site and submitting to a unilateral moratorium on ICBM launches is entirely tolerable compared to what Mr Kim gains by sitting alongside President Trump.
Read Ankit Panda's full analysis here
When and where might a Trump-Kim summit take place?
Mr Trump surprised the international community last month by accepting Pyongyang's suggestion for direct talks. It would be unprecedented for a sitting US president to meet a North Korean leader.
He has said the summit will take place either in early June or "a little before that" and that several sites are under consideration.
Experts have speculated that a location for talks could be the Demilitarised Zone between North and South Korea, another Asian country, or a neutral European country.
Speaking on Thursday, President Trump said that if he did not think the meeting would be successful he would not go, and if the meeting went ahead but was not productive, he would walk out.
"Our campaign of maximum pressure will continue until North Korea denuclearises," he said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device
Media captionHow to talk to North Korea
Major North Korean missile tests
North Korea has carried out numerous missile tests. Some of these exploded shortly after launch, but others travelled for hundreds of miles before landing in the sea. Here are some of the major tests reported so far:
12 February 2017 - A medium-range ballistic missile launched from Banghyon air base near the west coast. It flew east towards the Sea of Japan for about 500km.
4 July 2017 - Pyongyang claimed to have successfully tested an intercontinental ballistic missile for the first time. Officials said it reached an altitude of 2,802km and flew for 39 minutes.
29 August 2017 - North Korea fired what is thought to be its first nuclear-weapon capable ballistic missile over Japan. It was launched from near Pyongyang and reached a height of about 550km.
15 September 2017 - A ballistic missile was fired across Japan for the second time and landed in the sea off Hokkaido. It reached an altitude of about 770km and travelled 3,700km.
29 November 2017 - North Korea said it had successfully tested a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile that could reach the whole of the continental US. The Hwasong-15 missile landed in Japanese waters but flew higher than any other missile the North had previously tested.
Related Topics
