['techcrunch', '398', 'Devin Coldewey', 'YouTube ads for hundreds of brands still running on extremist and white nationalist channels', 'It\'s been more than a year since YouTube promised to improve controls over what content advertisers would find their ads in front of; eight months since it promised to demonetize "hateful" videos; two months since it said it would downgrade offensive channels\xe2\x80\xa6', 'https://techcrunch.com/2018/04/20/youtube-ads-for-hundreds-of-brands-still-running-on-extremist-and-white-nationalist-channels/', 'https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/gettyimages-635266388-e1522786166965.jpeg?w=764', '2018-04-20T19:25:25Z']
Devin Coldewey @ / 17 hours
Its been more than a year since YouTube promised to improve controls over what content advertisers would find their ads in front of; eight months since it promised to demonetize hateful videos ; two months since it said it would downgrade offensive channels ; and yet CNN reports that ads from hundreds of major brands are still appearing as pre-rolls for actual Nazis.
The ongoing failure to police billions of hours of content isnt exactly baffling  this is a difficult problem to solve  but it is disappointing that YouTube seems to have repeatedly erred on the side of monetization.
As with previous reports, CNNs article shows that ads were running on channels that, if YouTubes content rules are to be believed, should have been demonetized and demoted instantly: Nazis, pedophiles, extremists of the right, left, and everywhere in between. Maybe even Logan Paul.
YouTubes CEO promises stronger enforcement in the wake of controversies
And the system appears to be working in strange ways: one screenshot shows a video by a self-avowed Nazi, entitled David Duke on Harvey Weinstein exposing Jewish domination. Black/White genetic differences. Below it a YouTube warning states that certain features have been disabled for this video, including comments and sharing, because of content that may be inappropriate or offensive to some audiences.
A cheerful ad from Nissan is running ahead of this enlightening piece of media, and CNN notes that ads also ran on it coming from the Friends of Zion Museum and the Jewish National Fund! Ads from the Toy Association ran on the channel of a guy who argued for the decriminalization of pedophilia!
I cant really add anything to this. Its so absurd I can barely believe it myself. Remember, this is after the company supposedly spent a year (at the very least) working to prevent this exact thing from happening. I left the headline in the present tense because Im so certain that its still going on.
The responsibility really is YouTubes, and if it cant live up to its own promises, companies are going to leave it behind rather than face viral videos of their logo smoothly fading into a swastika on the wall of some sad basement-dwelling bigot. Subway  eat fresh! And now, some guys thoughts on genocide.
Some of the other brands that had ads run against offensive content: Amazon, Adidas, Cisco, Hilton, Hershey, LinkedIn, Mozilla, Netflix, Nordstrom, The Washington Post, The New York Times, 20th Century Fox Film, Under Armour, The Centers for Disease Control, Department of Transportation, Customs and Border Protection, Veterans Affairs and the US Coast Guard Academy.
I asked YouTube for comment on how this happened  or rather, how it never stopped happening. The company did not address my specific questions, but offered the following statement:
We have partnered with our advertisers to make significant changes to how we approach monetization on YouTube with stricter policies, better controls and greater transparency. When we find that ads mistakenly ran against content that doesnt comply with our policies, we immediately remove those ads. We know that even when videos meet our advertiser friendly guidelines, not all videos will be appropriate for all brands. But we are committed to working with our advertisers and getting this right.
Very similar to previous statements over the last year or so. I look forward to hearing what brands it thought Nazism and pedophilia were appropriate for.
