['techradar', '401', 'James Peckham', 'Moto G6 review', 'Motorola is bringing 18:9 screens to its most popular phone series', 'https://www.techradar.com/reviews/moto-g6', 'https://cdn.mos.cms.futurecdn.net/VayFmcVeoWUKe4L9dFXfon-1200-80.jpg', '2018-04-19T14:01:31.108Z']
What is a hands on review?
Our Early Verdict
At first sight everything seems to add up for the Moto G6. Everything youd expect from an affordable phone is here, plus a whole lot more, with an 18:9 display, high-end design and new camera features that look to blow other affordable handsets away.
For
Bright and clear 18:9 display
Much improved design over predecessors
Against
Design isnt waterproof
Most will be limited to 32GB storage
Update: We've included our first benchmarking scores for the Moto G6 when using it over a few days as well as a couple of camera samples to show you how the Portrait mode works on the phone.
Motorolas G series has gone from strength to strength, which is a real achievement considering the first phone in the line from 2013 set a new standard for affordable phones, and racked up sales to match.
The company's aim with the Moto G line is to bring those features youd normally expect on high-end phone to a cheaper handset. Its never the same experience as buying an actual high-end phone, but it does allow you to get a taste of those top-end features without spending a fortune.
With the Moto G6, the company has focused on bringing the 18:9 display ratio weve seen so often on top-end phones, from the Samsung Galaxy S8 to the LG G6 , Huawei P20 to the Asus Zenfone 5 , to an affordable handset.
Its not the first company to do this  Alcatel released a whole series of phones earlier this year that even included a phone under 100 with an 18:9 display  but its the first time this feature has come to the Moto G, and thats a big deal.
Weve been lucky enough to try out the Moto G6 for a whole day, and below you'll find our initial thoughts on the handset. While we have been using a final sample of the phone, its one optimized for the Brazilian market, so some features may be different depending on where you are.
Check out our hands on Moto G6 Plus review
Below you can watch our video for the Moto G6, Moto G6 Plus and Moto G6 Play.
Moto G6 release date and price
The Moto G6 is already available in some markets. In the UK youll have to wait until the first week on May, while its currently unclear when the phone will be coming to the US and Australia.
As for the price, we know its set to cost 219 / $249 (about AU$320) for the standard version, which has 32GB of storage and 3GB of RAM. There's also a high-end version thats exclusive to Amazon, with 64GB of storage and 4GB of RAM, which will cost 239, and you may well think it's worth that extra 20 to double your storage  we don't have US or Australia pricing for that phone yet, but we'd expect a similar premium.
Moto G6 design and display
Both the design and display have been dramatically improved over the Moto G5S from 2017. The Moto G6 comes with an 18:9 aspect ratio display, and thats an IPS LCD at 5.7 inches.
You get a Full HD+ resolution, so its slightly higher than Full HD phones because of the taller screen size. It doesnt look as stunning as the displays on high-end handsets, but it looks great considering the price of the phone.
The new aspect ratio isnt just good for the look of the handset, it means theres more screen packed into a smaller body; it's the optimum size for the phone's overall size (we found the G6 easier to hold than the Moto G6 Plus), and the screen seems bright with strong viewing angles too.
The phone is made with 3D glass, so the back looks shiny and premium, although it does pick up fingerprints rather easily  after using the phone for only a day we had to wipe it down to keep it looking good.
Color-wise youve just got the choice of black or gold at the moment, but there may be more colors to come from Motorola in the future. We had the black handset for this hands-on review, and while it does look good wed prefer to have a bolder color for the phone in our pocket.
The edges on the rear of the G6 are curved, and that allows it to sit much more comfortably in the palm of your hand than previous models  if you've seen the Samsung Galaxy S7 , its a similar curvature on the back.
Motorola says the G6 is "splashproof", but it hasn't yet revealed the phone's exact IP rating, so you'll want to take care around water as it wont survive being fully submerged.
On the bottom of the phone youll find a USB-C slot in the middle and  thank you Motorola  a 3.5mm headphone jack, so you can use your wired headphones with this phone.
Below the display is a small fingerprint sensor. We found that this worked efficiently, and its barely noticeable when you hold the phone in your hand. One interesting feature of the sensor is that you can hold your finger on it for a second or so and the phone will then lock again.
Its not a revolutionary idea, as theres still a power button on the right-hand edge of the phone that you can use to easily lock it, but its an interesting idea that we think youll get used to and start using once you know its there.
Moto G6 specs and performance
In our hands-on time with the Moto G6 weve found it to be snappy and perform well considering its price. The version weve been using has 3GB of RAM, although as we've mentioned theres also a 4GB model thats an Amazon exclusive (and it's only available in some countries).
The phone is running a Qualcomm Snapdragon 450 chipset, which we saw perform strongly in the Sony Xperia XA2 last year, so weve got high hopes that this chipset will continue to punch above its weight. Using Geekbench 4 we've found the Moto G6 had a multi-core score of 3,807.
That's much better than the Moto G5S that had a score of 2,294 in the same test last year, but it doesn't beat the Moto G5S Plus that scored 4,312.
We've not yet had the opportunity to benchmark the G6, but we'll be doing so for our full review.
The standard version of the phone comes with 32GB of storage, which isnt the most generous offering in 2018 (the Amazon variant doubles that to 64GB ) but theres also microSD support up to 256GB.
Moto G6 battery and OS
The Moto G6 is packing a 3000mAh battery, which is the smallest in the three new handsets the company has launched  and thats a worry considering that theres more to power here than on the G6 Play .
As we've only been using the phone for a day we dont want to judge the battery just yet, as its currently bedding in, so its performance isn't representative of what we can expect in longer-term day-to-day use.
The phone is running Android 8 Oreo , which is the latest version of Googles mobile OS, and it's a stock version, so its largely the same as what youd see on the Google Pixel 2 . There are a few Motorola tweaks here, but theres no bloatware to be seen, and the interface is slick and easy to use.
Moto G6 camera
The rear camera on the Moto G6 isnt going to take the most gorgeous phone camera shot youve ever seen, but based on our limited testing it can hold its own against other phones around this price and some more expensive mid-rangers too. Below you can see a few shots weve taken with the phone.
Its a dual-sensor setup, with a 12MP sensor working in tandem with a 5MP sensor to the side of it. It's not as powerful a combination as you'll see on other phones, though, and you don't seem to get the same benefits. The secondary sensor seems to be used to sense depth in the portrait mode.
The portrait mode allows you to focus on an object in the foreground and apply three different basic effects to your photos. You can blur the background, change a specific area of the photo to black and white or do a simple cutout of the foreground.
You need to take the photo in the portrait mode, and then you can edit it later with a tool on the phone called depth editor. Here are a couple of examples of what it can do:
Image 1 of 4
The first photo taken in the Portrait mode without any Depth Editor effect applied.
Image 2 of 4
Background blur at 100% where it managed to cutout the subject quite well.
Image 3 of 4
This tool turns the background to black and white with a single tap, but there are still remnants of color in this example.
Image 4 of 4
You can also cutout the subject with one tap. It's not perfect, but this example shows you can have some fun with the tool.
Shooting in automatic mode, image quality seems good enough. It's similar to that from previous Moto G phones and other handsets of this type, but weve found that it can be slow to take a photo at times. That means you have to hold the phone steady for a little bit longer than wed like, but if that isnt an issue for you there are some good features here.
We particularly like the portrait mode, which allows you to create effects such as making the background black and white while keeping the foreground subject in color  its an interesting take on a feature weve seen in other high-end handsets, such as the Huawei P20.
On the front of the G6 is a 5MP selfie camera, which weve found to be okay for taking shots of our face, but again theres nothing here that's going to blow you away. There is a filters mode that overlays Snapchat-like frippery such as cat features or bunny ears on your mug, but this is a temperamental feature at the moment, and it takes a long time to process images.
Early verdict
It looks like Motorola has once again achieved what has become its trademark feat: taking the kinds of features youd normally expect to see on a phone costing $500 / 500 or more, distilling them down a little and packing them into a more affordable handset.
The Moto G6 still doesnt dip below the $200 / 200 price point that many people expect of a cheap phone, but it does so much more than any other phone at this level, and we cant wait to properly put it through its paces in our full review very soon.
What is a hands on review?
'Hands on reviews' are a journalist's first impressions of a piece of kit based on spending some time with it. It may be just a few moments, or a few hours. The important thing is we have been able to play with it ourselves and can give you some sense of what it's like to use, even if it's only an embryonic view. For more information, see TechRadar's Reviews Guarantee .
Tech deals, prizes and latest news
Get the best tech deals, reviews, product advice, competitions, unmissable tech news and more!
No spam, we promise. You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details without your permission.
Most Popular
