['breitbart-news', '41', 'Jerome Hudson', 'Kanye West Praises Conservative Firebrand Candace Owens', 'Hip-hop megastar and fashion mogul Kanye West took to Twitter on Saturday and declared his "love" for conservative YouTube star turned grassroots activist Candace Owens.', 'http://www.breitbart.com/big-hollywood/2018/04/21/kanye-west-praises-conservative-firebrand-candace-owens/', 'http://media.breitbart.com/media/2018/04/KanyeandCandice1.jpg', '2018-04-21T12:12:44Z']
Kanye West Praises Conservative Firebrand Candace Owens
Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images for Roc Nation)/Facebook
by Jerome Hudson 21 Apr 2018 0
21 Apr, 2018
21 Apr, 2018
Hip-hop megastar and fashion mogul Kanye West took to Twitter on Saturday and declared his love for conservative YouTube star turned grassroots activist Candace Owens.
I love the way Candace Owens thinks, West wrote in a rare message to his 11 million-plus Twitter followers.
I love the way Candace Owens thinks
 KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 21, 2018
Upon seeing Wests tweet, actress and outspoken conservative Roseanne Barr tweeted bingo in response to the Chicago crooners post.
bingo.
 Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) April 21, 2018
Owens shot to YouTube star status last year, garnering millions of views on her videos in which shes blasted Black Lives Matter, social justice warriors, and white guilt. She has spoken in support of a range of topics from tax cuts to President Donald Trump. Owens YouTube page, however, soon suffered the same censoring that so many conservative stars experience.
In recent months, Owens has shifted from herRedPillBlack YouTube moniker to grassroots political activist. Last November, she was appointed director of urban engagement for the nonprofit Turning Point USA.
Right now CNN is pretending that black conservatives dont exist, when in fact the truth is, its growing, were multiplying, Owens told Breitbart News in march. Every single day a black person goes, O.K. you know what, being a victim is boring.
Owens newfound conservative convergence has placed her in the good graces of none other than the family of President Donald Trump.
I love the guy, I love him, because what he represented to me is the death of political correctness, and you have no idea how necessary that death is, Owens said .The truth is that Trump as an individual, appeals to younger people, his whole style is younger, its fresher, its not buttoned up, its authentic, she said. Thats the way we speak, were the LOL nation.
A post shared by Candace Owens (@realcandaceowens) on
Feb 27, 2018 at 7:07am PST
Interestingly, Owens new Grammy Award-winning admirer has also acknowledged the impact President Trump has had on underserved communities.
I wanted to meet with Trump today to discuss multicultural issues, West wrote on Twitter after hismeeting with President-elect Trump at Trump Tower a month after the election. These issues included bullying, supporting teachers, modernizing curriculums, and violence in Chicago.
A month earlier, West famously posed a packed concert and announced to the audience thathe had not voted in the presidential election, but if he had, he would have voted for Trump .
Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson
Read More Stories About:
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page .
BREITBART CONNECT
