['the-new-york-times', '432', 'Choe Sang-Hun', 'Confronting a Crisis? Now, Kim Jong-un Can Just Pick Up the Phone', 'North Korea and South Korea have installed the first-ever telephone hotline between their top leaders in another sign of improving relations.', 'https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/20/world/asia/kim-jong-un-hotline-korea.html', 'https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/21/world/21korea-1/21korea-1-facebookJumbo.jpg', '2018-04-20T10:00:29Z']
Mr. Moons office also praised the announcement. We view the Norths decision as a significant step toward the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula the world has wished for, said Yoon Young-chan, a spokesman for Mr. Moon.
Despite the enthusiasm, American officials have watched Mr. Kim with a mix of satisfaction and wariness.
The North Korean leaders move could be tactical  putting the United States on the defensive in advance of talks on its nuclear arsenal. By extending an olive branch, American officials said, North Korea is putting pressure on the United States to accept a deal before Mr. Kim agrees to give up North Koreas nuclear weapons.
Mr. Kim could also be trying to drive a wedge between the United States and South Korea, since President Moon has put great emphasis on ending more than six decades of conflict on the Korean Peninsula.
On Thursday, Mr. Moon said Mr. Kim had made a similar gesture, saying the North no longer insisted on the withdrawal of American troops from the Korean Peninsula. But White House officials privately dismissed the remarks, saying removal of the troops was never on the table.
Caution toward Mr. Kims peace overtures also punctuated the reaction of officials from Japan, which North Korea has long threatened with missile strikes. The defense minister, Itsunori Onodera, who was visiting Washington when Mr. Kim announced the suspension of nuclear and missile tests, said the move was not sufficient because it did not clearly state whether the suspension included the short and midrange missiles that could hit Japan.
Mr. Onodera also emphasized that a suspension was far short of denuclearization. What the international community expects is that North Korea abandon all weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missiles in a complete verifiable and irreversible manner, he said. It is not a time to relax pressure by the international community, but we must keep applying pressure with an aim that they abandon their nuclear weapons and missiles.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
In a statement after a meeting of the Central Committee of his ruling Workers Party, Mr. Kim said his country required no further nuclear and long-range missile tests because it had already achieved a nuclear deterrent. It was now time to focus on rebuilding the economy, he said.
From April 21, North Korea will stop nuclear tests and launches of intercontinental ballistic missiles, the Korean Central News Agency said, quoting Mr. Kim.
Photo
An arms announcement from North Korea came one day after North and South Korea installed what officials said was the first-ever hotline between their top leaders. Credit South Korean Presidential Blue House
It also said the North would shut down a nuclear test site in the countrys northern side to guarantee transparency in suspending nuclear tests.
To officials and analysts in South Korea, Mr. Kims decision to shut down his countrys only known nuclear test site, in Punggye-ri in northeastern North Korea, and his moratorium on long-range missile tests, are some of the trust-building steps that they have hoped Mr. Kim would take to help improve the mood for dialogue in Washington.
Mr. Kim spent last year conducting a series of nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile tests, raising tensions and a risk of war with the United States. But he has initiated a dramatic about-face since January with a sequence of diplomatic maneuvers, including a summit meeting with President Xi Jinping of China in Beijing last month in his first trip abroad as leader, and his invitations to Mr. Moon and Mr. Trump for summit talks.
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
