['the-new-york-times', '433', 'Choe Sang-Hun', 'Sanctions Are Hurting North Korea. Can They Make Kim Give In?', 'Despite President Trump\xe2\x80\x99s \xe2\x80\x9cmaximum pressure,\xe2\x80\x9d there is no sign of economic crisis in the North. Does that make its leader, Kim Jong-un, less likely to give up his weapons?', 'https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/20/world/asia/north-korea-trump-sanctions-kim-jong-un.html', 'https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/17/world/00nkorea-sactions-3/00nkorea-sactions-3-facebookJumbo.jpg', '2018-04-20T10:00:27Z']
Site Mobile Navigation
Cover Photo
A light show displayed a North Korean flag atop the empty Ryugyong Hotel in Pyongyang, the capital. New sanctions to stop its weapons programs have hurt the North, but the closed country is finding ways to cope. Credit Ed Jones/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images
Sanctions Are Hurting North Korea. Can They Make Kim Give In?
The isolated North is finding ways to cope with tough new penalties. Is the economic pressure enough to get Kim Jong-un to give up his weapons?
By CHOE SANG-HUN
APRIL 20, 2018
SEOUL, South Korea  On a dark February night, the trucks unloaded their contraband near Hyesan, a North Korean town across a narrow river from China. As border guards looked the other way, workers used carts to pull the cargo of metal ore  tungsten, lead, zinc, copper and gold concentrates, all banned from export under United Nations sanctions  across the frozen river.
By sunrise, all that was left were tire tracks and footprints across the rivers frozen surface.
A North Korean witness told an acquaintance living in South Korea that ore, as well as other materials, was being smuggled into China at the crossing almost every night. He said smugglers also headed the other way, moving sugar, flour and 50-kilogram sacks of fertilizers into North Korea.
There is growing evidence that tough new sanctions imposed on North Korea to stop its nuclear weapons and missile programs have begun to bite, and bite hard. Factories have closed because of a lack of raw materials, fishermen have deserted their boats and military units are resorting to charcoal-engine vehicles and even ox-driven carts for transport.
But the elaborate efforts to smuggle goods in and out of North Korea are among the signs that the closed, secretive country is finding ways to cope.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
The North is also responding with patriotic appeals and belt-tightening, and by prioritizing the allocation of resources to the military and political elite. Despite shortages, exchange rates and key consumer prices are stable, and there is no sign of an approaching famine, according to recent visitors and North Korean defectors who remain in contact with people inside the country.
Continue reading the main story
President Trump and South Koreas president, Moon Jae-in, say their policy of maximum pressure on the government of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, has helped bring him to the bargaining table. Mr. Trump recently acknowledged that he sent the C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, to a secret meeting with Mr. Kim this month to lay the groundwork for the first-ever meeting between the leaders of the United States and North Korea.
Since then, Mr. Kim has taken steps to appear willing to cut a deal, offering what sound like concessions to the United States, but can also be seen as clever negotiating tactics. On Saturday, Mr. Kim said that we no longer need any nuclear or missile tests, and that the North would close a nuclear test site, according to the Norths official Korean Central News Agency.
One day earlier Mr. Moon said that Mr. Kim removed a key obstacle to negotiations with the United States by ceasing to demand the withdrawal of American troops from South Korea as a condition for denuclearizing his country.
It is far from clear, however, whether the pain from sanctions is forcing Mr. Kim to make concessions, and whether it could be enough to drive him to trade away his nuclear arsenal.
Many analysts and North Korean defectors have doubts about whether economic pressure alone, no matter how painful, can change the behavior of an impoverished, tightly controlled nation that has endured extreme hardship before.
Mr. Kim seemed to reinforce that perception when he recently warned his people that they must be prepared to overcome further burdens. Our revolution faced the harshest-ever challenges, Mr. Kim said in his New Years Day speech .
If you think the North Koreans would revolt or the regime would collapse because of sanctions, you dont know anything about the North Koreans, said Kang Mi-jin, a North Korean defector who collects North Korean consumer prices for the Souths central Bank of Korea. These are people who survived the famine by eating weeds and even talk proudly about it.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
But the latest sanctions are causing pain in a way that earlier rounds did not. Some analysts suggest that changes within North Korea, such as the formation of a new middle class, and Mr. Kims own promises to improve the lives of his long-suffering people, could make him more willing to give up his nuclear weapons if he can receive convincing guarantees of his governments survival.
We are starting to see the first major test of the North Korean economy under Kim Jong-un, said Curtis Melvin, a researcher at the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
Continue reading the main story
Photo
A construction site in Pyongyang in June. Sanctions limit the Norths imports of petroleum, leaving the country without enough fuel to run all of its 280,000 cars, much less heat homes and meet other needs. Credit Ed Jones/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images
Maximum Pressure
Since September, the United Nations Security Council has banned all key North Korean exports, including coal, iron ore, seafood and textiles. If enforced fully, they could eliminate a full 90 percent of the countrys total exports in dollar terms.
Especially painful was the decision last December to limit the Norths imports of refined petroleum products to half a million barrels a year, a 90 percent reduction from the previous year.
North Korea can still extract 1.2 million barrels of gasoline, diesel and kerosene from the four million barrels of crude oil a year it is allowed to import, mostly from China, said an energy analyst, Lee Jong-heon. But the combined 1.7 million barrels of refined petroleum would be less than half the amount needed to run all of the 280,000 cars in North Korea, much less heat homes and meet other needs, Mr. Lee said.
Experts said the sanctions, and Chinas apparent willingness to enforce many of them, had dealt a blow to one of the few bright points in the North Korean economy: trade with China, which had been an eager market for ore and other North Korean natural resources.
Production has sharply decreased, if not come to a compete halt, in coal, iron, zinc and copper mines, said Jiro Ishimaru, who runs Asia Press, a Japan-based website that monitors North Korea with the help of informants inside the country. Many miners dont report for work because management cant provide rations or pay wages.
North Korean exports to China, which account for more than 90 percent of the Norths external trade, plunged by one third to $1.65 billion last year, with volumes dropping by 60 to 95 percent in recent months. Its official trade deficit against China more than doubled last year to $1.68 billion.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Petty traders from the North who used to cross into China in the morning on foot or in small cars and then returned in the evening with auto parts and food to sell on the black market no longer come, said Wu Qiang, a North Korea expert in China.
The sanctions have also led China and other nations to send home tens of thousands of North Korean workers , cutting off another key source of hard currency for Mr. Kims government.
Without foreign currency, North Korea will struggle to finance imports of consumer goods for its people and raw materials for its factories. It will also be unable to import fertilizer in time for the planting season, raising the specter of a return of food shortages, said Jin Qiangyi, director of the Center for North and South Korea Studies at Yanbian University.
Humanitarian aid workers who have recently visited the country warn that food shortages could be exacerbated by the lack of fuel, which could hamper North Koreas ability to transport grain from areas of surplus to places where there is not enough. Trucks that used to carry goods twice a day now run only once a day on some routes, though some are extending their decks to carry more loads.
Recent visitors also describe shortages of medicine. This was evident last year, when South Korean doctors operated on a North Korean soldier who defected through a hail of bullets. When they examined him, they found his intestines filled with worms .
Continue reading the main story
Photo
In Pyongyang, there is enough electricity to keep streetlights on at night, said South Korean journalists who visited this month. Everyone seemed to carry a cellphone, and women were more fashionably dressed than before, they said. Credit Ed Jones/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images
Breaking Point
Despite these privations, analysts say there are few signs that North Koreas economy has reached a breaking point.
In Pyongyang, there is still enough electricity to keep streetlights on at night, said South Korean journalists who visited this month. Everyone seemed to carry a cellphone, and women were more fashionably dressed than before, they said.
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
