['the-new-york-times', '434', 'Michael S. Schmidt', '6 Takeaways From the Comey Memos', 'The memos written by the former F.B.I. director James B. Comey paint a revealing portrait of his interactions with President Trump.', 'https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/20/us/politics/comey-memos-takeaways.html', 'https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/21/business/21dc-comey--takaways-3/21dc-comey--takaways-3-facebookJumbo.jpg', '2018-04-20T06:37:08Z']
RSS Feed
According to the memos, the president told Mr. Comey in a one-on-one dinner at the White House later in January 2017 that he had spoken with several people who had been on the trip with him. Mr. Trump said those people reminded him that he did not stay overnight in Moscow.
Mr. Trump said that he had arrived in the morning, attended a series of events, then went to a hotel to shower and dress for the pageant, leaving Russia afterward.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
In a February 2017 meeting in the Oval Office, Mr. Trump told Mr. Comey the hookers thing is nonsense but that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had told him that the country had some of the most beautiful hookers in the world.
The Dossiers Allegations Were Corroborated
Mr. Comeys decision to brief Mr. Trump on the dossier was based, at least in part, on the fact that American intelligence agencies had corroborated parts of the dossier, according to the memos.
I explained that the analysts from all three agencies agreed it was relevant and that portions of the material were corroborated by other intelligence, Mr. Comey wrote in a memo in February 2017, describing how he responded to a question from Mr. Priebus about why he told the president-elect a month earlier about the dossier.
Parts of the memo are redacted but appear to say that information in the dossier was consistent with and corroborated by other intelligence, and that the incoming president needed to know the rest of it was out there.
Photo
President Trump and his first chief of staff, Reince Priebus, both met privately with the former F.B.I. director James B. Comey during their first weeks in the White House. Credit Doug Mills/The New York Times
Trumps Focus on McCabe, Then a Relative Unknown
Mr. Trump also raised on several occasions Mr. Comeys deputy at the F.B.I., Andrew G. McCabe, according to the memos. Mr. McCabe had been the subject of right-wing attacks over his involvement in the investigation into Hillary Clintons handling of classified information while secretary of state. His wife, Jill, received hundreds of thousands of dollars in donations for her failed Virginia State Senate campaign from a political committee run by a longtime Clinton ally.
Some conservatives insisted that Mr. McCabe should have recused himself from the Clinton investigation to avoid bias, and Mr. Trump joined in those attacks on the campaign trail.
According to the memos, Mr. Trump asked Mr. Comey during their January dinner whether Mr. McCabe had a problem with the president.
I was pretty rough on him and his wife during the campaign, Mr. Trump ventured. Mr. Comey tried to smooth over the issue by explaining that F.B.I. agents and officials pride themselves on being apolitical.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
l explained that Andy was a true professional and had no problem at all, Mr. Comey wrote. I then explained what F.B.I. people were like, that whatever their personal views, they strip them when they step into their bureau roles and actually hold political people in slight contempt without regard to party.
The president broached the subject again during dinner, and the F.B.I. director repeated his response.
Photo
Memos written last year by the F.B.I. director at the time, James B. Comey, and released on Thursday depict President Trump as preoccupied with political rivalries and fears that government officials were trying to undermine his presidency. Credit Susan Walsh/Associated Press
I again affirmed Andys ability and professionalism and said the president would come to see and benefit from both, Mr. Comey wrote.
In an Oval Office meeting weeks later, Mr. Trump brought up Mr. McCabe again.
He asked (as he had at our dinner) whether my deputy had a problem with him, and recounting how hard he had been on the campaign trail, saying, The No. 2 guy at the F.B.I. took a million dollars from the Clintons.
Mr. Comey said he again explained that Mr. McCabe was a pro and had never mentioned Mr. Trumps attacks.
What Priebus Knew
At their dinner, Mr. Trump gave contradictory explanations about whether Mr. Priebus knew they were meeting.
Early on, as they discussed whom Mr. Comeys point of contact should be at the White House, Mr. Trump said that Reince doesnt know we are having dinner but that Mr. Comey should plan to go to him.
But as Mr. Comey was preparing to leave the White House that night, Mr. Trump told him: Reince knows we are having dinner (the opposite of what he said earlier), according to one memo.
Newsletter Sign Up
Get the Morning Briefing by Email
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
