['the-new-york-times', '435', 'Maggie Haberman', 'Giuliani to Join Trump\xe2\x80\x99s Legal Team', 'Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor and longtime Trump loyalist, will be part of a legal stable as the president faces the Russia investigation.', 'https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/19/us/politics/giuliani-trump.html', 'https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/20/us/politics/20dc-giuliani-1/20dc-giuliani-1-facebookJumbo.jpg', '2018-04-19T21:41:58Z']
Opt out or contact us anytime
The addition of Mr. Giuliani comes at a particularly tumultuous time for the president. Last month the presidents lead lawyer, John Dowd, quit the team after he determined the president was not following his advice. For much of the past month, the team has been led by Mr. Sekulow, who has had to assemble a new group of lawyers to deal with the issues in New York and another team to confront Mr. Mueller.
At the same time, Mr. Mueller has been pressuring Mr. Trump to sit down for an interview. The president, who initially said he was eager to answer Mr. Muellers questions under oath, is said to be more skeptical of an interview in the wake of the raid on Mr. Cohens office.
After Mr. Dowd quit, many well-known lawyers turned down the opportunity to join the presidents legal team. Some said that they did not believe Mr. Trump would listen to them and that their firms did not want to be associated with the president. But after the raid on Mr. Cohen, many more lawyers have become interested in working for Mr. Trump, according to people briefed on the matter. The lawyers believe the government overstepped its bounds by executing a warrant at a lawyers office and have contended the government violated the attorney-client privilege between Mr. Cohen and his clients.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Mr. Trump negotiated the discussions to have Mr. Giuliani join his team with Mr. Giuliani directly, a person close to the process said. Mr. Trump had repeatedly offered Mr. Giuliani the job of attorney general during the transition, but Mr. Giuliani turned it down because he wanted to be secretary of state.
Mr. Trump turned to Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, to be attorney general, but has publicly criticized Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia inquiry. Mr. Trump has said that Mr. Sessions should be protecting him from the inquiry.
Some close to the president believe he could try to replace Mr. Sessions with Mr. Giuliani in the coming months, although Mr. Giuliani would face an extremely difficult confirmation hearing in the Senate. When Mr. Giuliani sought the secretary of state job, Trump advisers, including the presidents son-in-law, Jared Kushner, raised concerns about his business dealings and paid speeches to a shadowy Iranian opposition group that until 2012 was on the State Departments list of foreign terrorist organizations.
Mr. Giuliani will be taking a leave of absence from his law firm, Greenberg Traurig, while he works for Mr. Trump. Three people close to the former mayor said that Greenberg Traurig lawyers were distressed that Mr. Giuliani was taking on the new role. Many at the firm were already uncomfortable with Mr. Giulianis work for the Trump campaign, his outspoken opinions and his role in helping to write the presidents first travel ban that affected mostly Muslim countries.
James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director Mr. Trump fired, is critical of Mr. Giuliani in his new book, A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership. (Mr. Giuliani was Mr. Comeys boss when Mr. Comey went to work for the United States attorneys office in Manhattan in 1987.)
Though Giulianis confidence was exciting, it fed an imperial style that severely narrowed the circle of people with whom he interacted, something I didnt realize was dangerous until much later: a leader needs the truth, but an emperor does not consistently hear it from his underlings, Mr. Comey wrote.
Matt Apuzzo contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on April 20, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Giuliani to Lend Legal Firepower As Trumps Team Adds Lawyers. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
