['breitbart-news', '45', 'Ben Kew', "'Smallville' Actress Allison Mack Charged with Sex Trafficking for Her Alleged Role in NXIVM Sex Cult", 'Smallville actress Allison Mack was arrested by federal prosecutors on Friday for her alleged involvement in a sadistic sex cult, which is currently the focus of multiple criminal investigations.', 'http://www.breitbart.com/big-hollywood/2018/04/21/smallville-actress-allison-mack-charged-sex-trafficking-alleged-role-nxivm-sex-cult/', 'http://media.breitbart.com/media/2018/04/Allymack1.jpg', '2018-04-21T10:36:04Z']
Smallville Actress Allison Mack Charged withSex Trafficking for Her Alleged Role in NXIVM Sex Cult
Todd Williamson/Invision/AP
by Ben Kew 21 Apr 2018 0
21 Apr, 2018
21 Apr, 2018
Smallvilleactress Allison Mack was arrested by federal prosecutors on Friday for her alleged involvement in asadistic sex cult, which is currently the focus of multiple criminal investigations.
Mack, 35, appeared in court in Brooklyn, New York, on Friday to plead not guilty to charges ofsex trafficking and forced labor, amid allegations of her involvement with the secretive New York-based multi-level sex cult known asNXIVM.
The cults leaderKeith Raniere reportedly tasked Mack with finding and grooming female sex slaves to his satisfaction.Footage obtained last month byThe Sunshowed Macks bewildered reaction after Ranieres was arrested in Mexicoon similar charges.
Some of Macks alleged crimes against women include starving them to get them down to a particular weight, forcing them to refrain from all sexual activity, removing their pubic hair, and even waking them up at unpredictable hours to participate in readiness drills.
Ms. Mack was one of the top members of a highly organized scheme which was designed to provide sex to [Raniere], said Assistant US Attorney Moira Penza said in court. Under the guise of female empowerment, she starved women until they fit her co-defendants sexual feminine ideal.
Reports last month also implicated MacksSmallvilleco-star Kristin Kreuk, who reportedly left the group in 2012 as Mack and Raniere allegedly engaged in more sadistic rituals, which includedcarving their initials in and branding so-called sex workers bodies.
As this pyramid scheme continues to unravel, we ask anyone who might have been a victim to reach out to us with information that may further our investigation, said FBIassistant director-in-charge William F Sweeney in a statement.
If found guilty,both individuals face a minimum sentence of 15 years in prison and up to life imprisonment.
Follow Ben Kew on Facebook , Twitter at @ben_kew ,oremail him at bkew@breitbart.com.
Read More Stories About:
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page .
BREITBART CONNECT
