['the-verge', '451', 'Dani Deahl', 'What\xe2\x80\x99s In Your Bag, Cash Cash?', 'If there were a theme to the items in Cash Cash\xe2\x80\x99s bag, it would be \xe2\x80\x9calways be prepared.\xe2\x80\x9d It\xe2\x80\x99s the touring DJ\xe2\x80\x99s version of a Boy Scout\xe2\x80\x99s bag, and every tiny pocket is filled with things that are there for \xe2\x80\x9cjust in case\xe2\x80\x9d situations. When you\xe2\x80\x99re skipping to diff\xe2\x80\xa6', 'https://www.theverge.com/2018/4/20/16919342/whats-in-your-bag-cash-cash', 'https://cdn.vox-cdn.com/thumbor/mSZr5VikYdFeaNO3PN82NZ0pVvU=/0x292:2040x1360/fit-in/1200x630/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/10083483/jbareham_180107_2229_0057.jpg', '2018-04-20T13:00:02Z']
Whats In Your Bag, Cash Cash?
To your health!
Email
Whats in Your Bag? is a recurring feature in which we ask people to tell us a bit more about their everyday gadgets by opening their bags and hearts to us. This week, were featuring electronic music trio Cash Cash .
If there were a theme to the items in Cash Cashs bag, it would be always be prepared. Its the touring DJs version of a Boy Scouts bag, and every tiny pocket is filled with things that are there for just in case situations. When youre skipping to different cities every week, carrying earplugs, Emergen-C , Pedialyte , gummy vitamins, and Zicam isnt overkill; its a way to survive the cycle of late nights and early flights. In fact, today, theyll be playing celeb-drenched festival Coachella .
The trio, made up of brothers Jean Paul Makhlouf and Alex Makhlouf, as well as lifelong friend Sam Frisch, has made their mark merging the worlds of electronic, pop, hip-hop, and tinges of rock. Theyve worked with everyone from Nelly to Bebe Rexha, and are one of the top 200 most streamed artists on Spotify worldwide. Their newest single,  Finest Hour , featuring Abir, is a future pop burn that leans as much on powerful, warbling synths as it does on Abirs dusky vocals.
This particular late night The Verge spends with Cash Cash is in their suite at Las Vegas MGM Grand. Theyre playing at the hotels club, Hakkasan, and they have a few minutes to spare before sound check. Dumping the contents onto the rooms carpet, we comb through the myriad of things tucked inside. Turns out, theres a lot of tech, but also mementos, entertainment options, and natural health remedies... so many natural health remedies.
Alex: Zicam is a miracle cure for everything. Itll cut your cold in half.
JP: Its great for when you feel like youre about to get sick. Might as well take one of these right now! Also, you have to have your gummy vitamins. I tried to get the guys into the gummy vitamins, but theyre not into them.
Alex: I take them at home, but I dont find the need to travel with them. I can live one day without vitamins.
JP: The Pedialyte is for those hungover mornings when you just need that extra vitamin boost.
Alex: Its the best!
JP: Probably going to start adding kava tea to the mix.
Sam: Theres also Emergen-C. I take that a lot. Its one of those things like Zicam, I guess. I take it when I feel like Im getting sick. Sometimes when youre waking up at 5AM five days in a row and hopping on a plane all the time, it helps.
JP: Too much vitamin C makes me poop, so I stay away from that.
Sam: Earplugs, of course. Need to have earplugs for the shows and for the planes. Theyre essential. I think theyre just as important for the planes as they are for the shows because... crying babies next to you.
Alex: We all have the same Cabeau neck pillow . Its really good. Its made of memory foam, and it has a flat back. Its the Cash Cash neck pillow for sure. You have to get a neck pillow with a flat back so it lies flat against your seat on the plane.
JP: We have the guitar picks because you never know when youre going to be in a situation where theres going to be a kumbaya singalong. We all play guitar, and sometimes we play at our shows, too. Spotify gave us these two picks, which weve surprisingly held on to. Usually, we lose our picks, but these always find their way into a random jean pocket or the bottom of the backpack, so they might be good luck charms. When it comes to guitars, its Gibson all the way.
Sam: The bag on the end has a bunch of camera accessories. Theres a charger in there, a second lens, the kit lens that came with it, some extra batteries and stuff.
Sam: Theres a 2015 MacBook Pro Retina 15-inch. Its stuck around and is holding up pretty well. Ive taken it around the world the past three years. We still produce on it and run the live show through it. I havent upgraded yet because I cant give up the ports. I need my ports! I also think its still the best design.
The Sennheiser HD25 headphones are solid. I mean, weve used those from day one as our DJ headphones, and we have a couple pairs. Theyre pretty much indestructible, theyre loud, and theyre easy to travel with. I also have the Beats X wireless earbuds because I have the iPhone X. Im an earbud person for some reason.
We use the Samsung portable solid-state hard drives for video editing, photo backup, music backup, everything. Theyre tiny, they weigh nothing, and they hold a terabyte. Its pretty unbelievable. And theyre fast. When we work on a session, well back up everything in Dropbox and on these drives. Double it up.
We shoot with this Sony A6500 that has a 10 through 18mm lens  technically more like a 14mm because of the crop sensor  but its a great camera. Its been a lot of fun to take it while traveling. Especially in Asia, we took a ton of pictures. Its small, it does amazing in low light so its great for shooting at shows, and it takes good video. Its a nice all-around camera.
JP: We rock the Sandmarc iPhone lenses to record all our social media content. They are by far the best-quality wide-angle and fisheye lenses you can get for your phone. They screw into the case so they are always in the right position compared to all the cheap clip-on brands. They also dont record with any weird black rings or shadows. They handle the best in low light settings like clubs and really give you the closest thing to having a pro camera on you at all times.
Alex: I purchased the Nintendo Switch online, and I have it because I noticed that I was pretty bored on the airplanes all the time. The Switch was out, and I was like, That things perfect for me. So I bought it. Its a good time. Zelda was the first game I got for it, and I played it from August until about December. Its a long game. Theres a lot of shit to do! I just recently started playing Mario Odyssey. Thats a trip.
JP: I still keep my Apple iPod Classic 120GB in the backpack. Sometimes you just need to plug into the old iPod and get those vintage sounds.
Sam: Hey, if its not broken, dont fix it!
JP: Its got bootlegs you cant find on Spotify, old recordings. Its got good stuff on it! My phone is filled with videos and photos, so its a good way to keep things separate. It has older stuff and other rarities, things you cant find anymore, like live albums and acoustic stuff. There are some Jimmy Eat World B-sides on there that are pretty A+.
Alex: Jimmy Eat World demos... you are ridiculous.
Sam: You need USB sticks as a DJ. We have a ton more, actually, but I like the Sandisk USB 3.0 ones. Theyre the fastest Ive found, by far. So thats always clutch. I like the flip mechanism. The other one is a Pioneer USB we probably got as a promo at one point, but it pretty much stays in my backpack. I always have a few random ones as backup. The bigger the USB stick, the better. Otherwise, Ill just lose them.
JP: So we got the shit Mophie charger. The poop emoji. It works. You get about one charge out of it, so I guess its actually a shit charger.
JP: One of the rings belonged to my grandpa. I inherited it and turned it into a pinky ring. Its kind of a good luck charm that reminds me of what a strong dude he was. It makes me feel like hes always got my back and helps me get through stressful times when Im away from home for too long or feeling tired and rundown. Also, you have to have the case for the Rolis (Rolexes). Protect the investment. Cant just scratch it up. Theres nothing like a classic Rolex watch. But one piece of advice: dont be an idiot and burn the first chunk of money you make on a fancy, expensive watch. The watch comes fourth. You get a roof over your head, a set of wheels, some security funds for later, then treat yourself to a nice watch to reward your hard work.
Sam: The brown wallet has my passport in it. I destroyed my previous passport so I was like, I actually have to put in a wallet. It just got all bent up because I was keeping it in my pocket, and jackets, and sitting on it. So thats just for my passport, and the black Saint Laurent one is my actual wallet. It was a Hanukkah gift. Cheap sunglasses. I lose sunglasses all the time so I gave up on buying nice sunglasses. If I buy $15$20 ones, then I dont have to worry about them.
JP: Weve got the gold PBA (Police Benevolent Association) cards over there, which are like get out of jail free cards. It basically says, Im a family member of a detective or a police officer. One time, our tour bus got pulled over, and there was weed everywhere because some of the roadies were smoking. I showed the police the card, and they let us off. I havent gotten a ticket since Ive had them, and I get pulled over a lot for dumb things like making a left hand turn when youre not supposed to.
Sam: It works best in the New Jersey / New York tri-state area, but some cops respect it around the country.
JP: Yeah. One time we were in Arizona and a guy said, What the hell do you think this is? and threw it right back at me. But its gotten me out of trouble with things like a bar fight. If the cops interviewing you to figure out whos right and whos wrong, you show them the card, and they might sway their opinion toward you.
Sam: The bag is an Ogio bag . Its definitely not the most attractive-looking bag, but it holds everything, the organization is awesome, and it has a really good laptop compartment thats extra protected and has saved my ass a ton of times. It also has a strap where you can put it on a suitcase. I threw a bunch of extra zipper pulls on it to make it a little easier to get into everything. I use all the pockets, too. The USB sticks and hard drives go in these little front ones, earbuds in the top pocket. Everything is organized.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see
