['the-wall-street-journal', '461', 'Rebecca Davis O\xe2\x80\x99Brien', 'McKayla Maroney\xe2\x80\x99s Dark Journey: Olympic Champion, Abused Gymnast', 'A cherished American athlete suffered a heavy toll from years of sexual abuse by U.S. team doctor Larry Nassar; powerful institutions failed to protect her.', 'https://www.wsj.com/articles/mckayla-maroneys-dark-journey-olympic-champion-abused-gymnast-1524247452', 'https://si.wsj.net/public/resources/images/B3-AD080_0418MC_SOC_20180419171854.jpg', '2018-04-20T18:04:00Z']
126 COMMENTS
McKayla Maroney at her last gymnastics competition, in 2013. Photo: Dean Mouhtaropoulos/Getty Images
Aly Raisman and Jordyn Wieber were in their bedroom at the U.S. gymnastics team housing for the 2012 London Olympics when teammate            McKayla Maroney            texted: Rescue me.
Downstairs, she was alone again with team physician            Larry Nassar.            That meant his treatments would soon begin. Ms. Wieber says she and Ms. Raisman went down to make sure Ms. Maroney felt more comfortable.
At those Olympics, Ms. Maroney, Ms. Raisman and Ms. Wieber were celebrated as part of the gold-medal-winning Fierce Five gymnastics squad. In private, they were struggling with misgivings about Nassar . During treatments, he would touch their genital areas with his ungloved hand.
The Fierce Five at the 2012 Olympics. From left, Gabby Douglas, Aly Raisman, Jordyn Wieber, McKayla Maroney and Kyla Ross. Photo: Gregory Bull/Associated Press
Ms. Maroney was Nassars favorite, the national-team gymnasts knew. He always treated her last, sometimes keeping her two or three times longer than others. He photographed her constantly. Even after Ms. Maroney talked to authorities about his actions , Nassar continued treating patients for a year.
Six years after London, Nassar is an infamous criminal. More than 200 women and girls have accused him of sexually abusing them. He has pleaded guilty to state sexual-abuse charges in Michigan and to federal child-pornography charges, for which he is serving an effective life sentence. His medical license has been revoked.
Ms. Maroney stopped competing in gymnastics, descending into depression, listlessness and unexplained medical problems, says her father,            Michael Maroney.            It was almost like watching somebody get crushed, he says. The abuse, he says, ruined something that you thought youd be proud of for the rest of your life.
This is the story of those dark years through the eyes of one of Americas most famous and cherished gymnasts, and of how Nassars actsand the failure of powerful institutionstook a devastating toll on Ms. Maroney and left her parents racked with guilt.
Ms. Maroney this week spoke in public for the first time since coming forward with her Nassar allegations in an October tweet. My team won gold medals in spite of USA Gymnastics, MSU and the USOC, she said, speaking at the New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and referring to the sports national governing body, Michigan State University and the U.S. Olympic Committee . They dont build champions. They break them.
They demanded excellence from me, she said. But they couldnt give it to us.
Ms. Maroney, right, at the New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children on April 17. Photo: Jared Siskin/Patrck McMullan Agency
The account of what Ms. Maroney endured emerges from Wall Street Journal interviews with people who worked with Nassar and USA Gymnastics, with national-team gymnasts and their families and lawyers, and from court filings, police records and internal correspondence reviewed by or recounted to the Journal.
Nassar apologized to his victims in court but hasnt publicly addressed Ms. Maroneys allegations. He is appealing his federal sentence. His lawyer couldnt be reached, and a former lawyer declined to comment.
As with nearly all of the athletes who accused Nassar of abusing them, Ms. Maroney long kept her concerns to herself, her father and others close to her say. She focused at all costs on succeeding as an elite gymnast and became a global celebrity at the London Olympics, when her McKayla is not impressed facial expression became an internet meme.
In 2015, Ms. Maroney spoke to an investigator hired by USA Gymnastics and described for the first time what Nassar did to her under the guise of medical treatment.
Inquiries into her allegations by the Federal Bureau of Investigation seemed to go nowhere for almost a year, while USA Gymnastics and the U.S. Olympic Committee stayed silent. As Nassar continued to treat patients, Ms. Maroney grew even more despairing as each day passed without the doctors arrest, her father says.
The FBI says it is reviewing our role in the investigation of Mr. Nassar. We are unable to comment further.
When Nassar was arrested in 2016, it had nothing to do with Olympic athletes. It involved his alleged sexual abuse of a family friends daughter. Nassar went to prison. Only then did the events Ms. Maroney set in motion begin to have far-reaching impact. Facing lawsuits and the threat of being kicked out of the Olympic movement, leadership at USA Gymnastics was toppled . The USOC head stepped down , with the organization citing health concerns. Michigan State, where Nassar worked for two decades, is under investigation by the Michigan Attorney Generals office.
USA Gymnastics said in a statement that it cannot know the depth of McKayla Maroneys personal experience stemming from the abuse committed by Larry Nassar, but we are very sorry that McKayla and the other survivors were harmed by Nassars despicable actions.
Ms. Maroney at the 2012 Olympics. Photo: Ezra Shaw/Getty Images
Susanne Lyons, acting CEO of the USOC, said in a statement: The many brave survivors and their stories are bringing important changes to sports. A Michigan State spokeswoman said it is truly sorry for the trauma and pain McKayla and the other survivors suffered at the hands of Larry Nassar.
The Karolyi ranch, the training ground for elite gymnastics run by legendary coaches Bela and Martha Karolyi and where much of Ms. Maroneys abuse took place, has been all but abandoned. A lawyer for the Karolyis didnt respond to requests for comment. The Karolyis have previously denied wrongdoing.
In recent months, former national-team gymnasts have started to make sense of their experiences with Nassar as more than just abuse. In lawsuits, interviews, congressional testimony and court statements, they have indicated they see the scandal as the product of a warped culture that prized money, medals and reputation above athletes well-being.
As long as USA Gymnastics produced results and had absolute power over gymnasts futures, no parent or gymnast would question the means by which Olympic squads were coached, selected or treated medically, they say.
Even if they had recognized Nassars treatments as abuse at the time, says Ms. Wieber, Ms. Maroneys teammate, the gymnasts wouldnt risk their chances at making the Olympic team. USA Gymnastics created a culture of silence, Ms. Wieber says. We knew that if we spoke out, we wouldnt have gotten chosen.
USA Gymnastics in its statement said that it has taken steps to build a culture of empowerment that encourages our athletes to speak up and that it is focused on doing everything we can to prevent this from happening in the future.
A natural
From an early age, McKayla Maroney demonstrated remarkable athletic ability. She had a 3-foot vertical leap and could out-sprint the boys on the football team her father coached, he says. The vault, her signature event, made use of that speed and strength.
At age 14, Ms. Maroney was on the U.S. national team, under the command of Ms. Karolyi. The semi-centralized system meant Ms. Maroney spent most of her time training at her Southern California gym but reported nearly every month to the Karolyi ranch in Texas for dayslong camps.
Life on the team was isolating, team members, coaches and investigators say. Parents were kept at arms length. When the team traveled, USA Gymnastics booked a separate hotel for families. Parents were seldom allowed at the Karolyi ranch. There was almost no cellphone service.
Ms. Maroney competes on the balance beam in St. Louis in 2012. Photo: Dilip Vishwanat/Getty Images
The gymnasts were surrounded only by adults who had a role in preparing them for competition. Ms. Karolyi was notoriously exacting.
Deborah Daniels,             a former federal prosecutor hired by USA Gymnastics to review the organization after the Nassar scandal broke , says the subjective judging on which elite womens gymnastics is based makes athletes especially afraid to speak up and created a particularly ripe environment for abuse.
In some ways, Nassar seemed like a friend for the gymnastseven a miracle worker, said Ms. Wieber in a court statement. He brought them food and always made time for them, she said. In lengthy, cheerful emails, Nassar described gymnasts injuries to USA Gymnastics officials, coaches and parents.
Nassar, an osteopathic physician, developed a reputation for what he called pelvic floor treatment, a rare but accepted physical therapy in which a doctor adjusts hard-to-reach muscles and ligaments by applying pressure to the vaginal and anal areas. He lectured on the procedure and created videos and PowerPoints to illustrate his technique, which he showed investigators when questioned about it.
Nassar provided medical care to gymnasts at the Karolyi ranch, often in an isolated room. He had unfettered access to gymnasts rooms there and in hotels on the road, Ms. Maroney and others have alleged.
From left, Gabby Douglas, Aly Raisman, Simone Biles and Maggie Nichols at the Karolyi ranch in 2015. Photo: Erich Schlegel/Zuma Press
In a lawsuit Ms. Maroney filed in December against the U.S. Olympic Committee, USA Gymnastics and others, she alleged Nassar began grooming her for abuse as soon as she joined the national team, using his position to normalize intimate, inappropriate, and sexually abusive contact.
Her suit also alleged Nassar obsessively photographed her. Nassar was an amateur photographer for USA Gymnastics, providing sideline photos at meets. He also photographed Ms. Maroney, say people familiar with the matter, in everyday circumstances: at airports, at the Karolyi ranch, in practices, walking around.
Ms. Wieber says she initially didnt think of Nassars treatments as abuse. We werent ever in a position to question his treatments, she says. It just felt like, at the point in time, that we needed him.
In fact, as Nassars fixation on Ms. Maroney became increasingly obvious, Ms. Wieber says she would complain Ms. Maroney got more treatment, and it wasnt fair.
In October 2011, a squad went to Tokyo for the world championships. On the flight, Ms. Maroney alleged in a victim-impact statement, Nassar gave her a pill to help her sleep. When they arrived in Japan, the gymnasts went for treatments in Nassars room.
Ms. Maroney wins gold for vault at the world championships in Tokyo in 2011. Photo: Friso Gentsch/DPA/ZUMA PRESS
Nassar climbed on top of Ms. Maroney, who lay facedown on a hotel bed disoriented from the pill, says a person familiar with the episode. He removed some of her clothing and, straddling her hips, reached his hand behind his back and put his fingers inside her, rubbing his erection against her body. In her October 2017 tweet, she said it was the scariest night of her life.
A day or so later, on the team vehicle, she said out loud: He practically fingers me, say people who were present. A coach           John Geddert,             a longtime friend of Nassarsdidnt seem to notice, they say. Mr. Geddert didnt respond to requests for comment. His lawyer declined to comment.
Ms. Maroney won gold on vault. When she returned from Japan, she seemed distant, says her father. She didnt hug me anymore. He figured she was going through a teenage phase. When she appeared anxious before trips to the Karolyi ranch, he figured she was afraid of Ms. Karolyi.
He didnt suspect sexual abuse and in hindsight is tormented by one moment. In June 2012, at the national championships in St. Louis, Mr. Maroney recalls, Nassar turned to him and said: I love your daughter.
He looked at me, Mr. Maroney says, and it gave me the creeps.
Ms. Maroney after her near-perfect vault performance in the 2012 Olympics. Photo: Ronald Martinez/Getty Images
At the Olympics that summer, Ms. Maroney helped the team win gold, landing a near-perfect Amanar vault, one of gymnastics most challenging moves. Her chance at individual gold ended with a botched landing. Her pursed-lip expression on the medals stand became the McKayla is not impressed meme.
What the world didnt know: Nassar had abused her the night before, she tweeted in October 2017.
When she landed the vault in the team competition, it was the greatest moment of my life, her father says.
When I think about it now, it makes me want to throw up.
Nassars downfall
After the 2012 Olympics, Nassars stature with the national team began to slip. In 2013, USA Gymnastics then-president,            Steve Penny,             began a reorganization of medical services, adding oversight to a program that was informal and inefficient, Mr. Penny says. Nassar had already been told to stop photographing the gymnasts, he says.
Nassar also had a close call. In the spring of 2014, Michigan State opened a Title IX investigation after a patient accused him of molesting her. The university cleared him. State police referred the case to local prosecutors, who didnt bring charges. The investigations werent disclosed to USA Gymnastics, according to the national team and Michigan State.
Nassar still presented himself as the gymnasts protector. In July 2015, Ms. Raisman appeared in ESPN magazines Body Issue. Nassar emailed a USA Gymnastics official: Really!?!?!?! Cant they wait until they retire before they take their clothes off!
Larry Nassar during a sentencing in February. Photo: Cory Morse/The Grand Rapids Press/Associated Press
At that time, Mr. Penny was scrambling to manage allegations against Nassar. On June 17, 2015, Mr. Penny received a call from a USA Gymnastics executive: A gymnasts personal coach had overheard two gymnasts discussing concerns about Nassars treatment at the Karolyi ranch, the Journal reported in February 2017 .
USA Gymnastics has said it didnt immediately contact law enforcement. Instead, Mr. Penny hired            Fran Sepler,             an investigator, to speak with the gymnasts.
A USA Gymnastics lawyer emailed Nassar in July that certain gymnasts had expressed discomfort with certain areas of their bodies being touched and that the matter was under investigation, according to emails the Journal reviewed. Nassar responded that he didnt intend to cause discomfort, offering to send videos of his treatments, the emails show. The lawyer told Nassar to keep his distance from USA Gymnastics. Weeks later, Nassar announced he was retiring.
Ms. Raisman says she made clear to USA Gymnastics officials that if Ms. Sepler wanted to talk to anybody about this, she had to talk to Ms. Maroney. Ms. Raisman says she, too, only realized she was abused in 2015 and blames institutions she says let her down. I never should have ever met him.
Broken body
By the summer of 2015, Ms. Maroney at age 19 was home in the Los Angeles area pursuing a music career, all but retired from gymnastics.
After London, she had resumed training, defending her world title on vault in 2013. But her whole body felt like it was broken, she said in a video interview, aired in February 2016, with            Jessica OBeirne,             who runs a popular gymnastics podcast.
Ms. Maroney was struggling with unexplained illnesses, she said in her lawsuit. She had no energy and couldnt keep food down. Its weird what depression can do to you, she said in the podcast interview.
Ms. Maroney at the London 2012 Olympics. Photo: Brian Snyder/REUTERS
Mr. Penny had stayed in touch with Ms. Maroney, offering to help launch her music career. On July 22, 2015, he sent her a text with a more urgent request: I need to talk to you.
Two days later, she met with Ms. Sepler in Los Angeles. Afterward, Ms. Sepler told Mr. Penny that Ms. Maroney had described likely sexual assault and recommended reporting the matter to law enforcement, according to emails and a person familiar with the exchange.
Mr. Penny called Scott Blackmun, then the USOCs chief executive, to tell him about the allegations , the Journal reported in February 2018. On July 28, 2015, Mr. Penny and            Paul Parilla           then the vice chairman of the USA Gymnastics boardwent with the organizations legal counsel to meet with FBI officials in Indianapolis.
Mr. Parilla didnt respond to requests for comment. Mr. Blackmun declined to comment; he previously told the Journal he encouraged Mr. Penny to turn the matter over to law enforcement. In a statement provided by a spokeswoman, Ms. Sepler said her role had been to determine if certain concerns raised were legitimate, and I determined in just a matter of days that they were.
So began a nine-month period in which abuse allegations against Nassar languished with federal law enforcement. From July to September, Mr. Penny emailed with FBI agents in Indianapolis, offering to arrange interviews and provide information, and seeking approval and advice on communications with third parties, including Nassar, say people familiar with the emails.
Mr. Pennys lawyer, Leigh Robie, says he sought guidance because he didnt want to do anything that would compromise the investigation or the athletes privacy.
Mr. Penny tried to arrange FBI interviews with at least two gymnasts, including Ms. Maroney, whom he called the most aggrieved party, says one of the people familiar with the emails. A proposed meeting between Ms. Maroney and FBI agents in Indianapolis didnt take place, Mr. Maroney says.
In September, an FBI agent told Mr. Penny the case would be transferred to Detroit, in Nassars home state, the people familiar with the emails say. Instead of an in-person meeting, an FBI agent spoke with Ms. Maroney over the phone, the people say. The agent in charge of the Indianapolis field office wrote to Mr. Penny that pertinent interviews had been completed and sent to the Detroit FBI and to a federal prosecutors office in Michigan, they say.
Neither the Indianapolis nor Detroit field office opened a formal investigation, say people familiar with the episode. Ms. Maroney didnt hear from the FBI office again, these people say. Other gymnasts say FBI agents didnt reach out to them at the time.
Months went by, Nassar wasnt arrested, and Ms. Maroneys depression appeared to worsen, her father says. He thinks she had concealed the abuse even from herself. You put it in a little place in your brain, he says. You hide it.
In February 2016, Mr. Penny met Ms. Maroney at a Malibu restaurant, along with her mother and a friend of Ms. Maroneys, for what Mr. Penny recalls as a casual get-together while he was in town. One of the other people at the lunch says Mr. Penny seemed anxious that Ms. Maroney hadnt done any promotional work for the coming Rio Olympics.
Through Ms. Robie, Mr. Penny says that he had been concerned about Ms. Maroneys well-being and that they discussed possible musical opportunities for her, including at USA Gymnastics events.
Mr. Penny tried to assure Ms. Maroney change was under way at the Karolyi ranch. A lot happened at the Karolyi ranch, she told him, her eyes welling up with tears, says the person present.
We failed you, Mr. Penny replied, this person recalls. And for that Im never going to be able to apologize enough. Mr. Penny, through Ms. Robie, says he didnt recall his exact words, but the sentiment was consistent with how he felt.
That spring, Messrs. Penny and Parilla reported Nassar to the FBIs Los Angeles field office, and agents there opened an official investigation.
In August 2016, the Indianapolis Star began publishing a series of articles about sexual abuse in youth gymnastics, and two gymnasts filed claims against Nassar in a police report and lawsuit, respectively. A subsequent article about those claims surprised some USA Gymnastics board members, who say they hadnt been told of allegations against Nassar.
In November 2016, Nassar was arrested on state sexual-abuse charges in Michigan. The following month, federal prosecutors charged him with child-pornography counts.
Ms. Raisman speaks at a Nassar sentencing hearing. Photo: brendan mcdermid/Reuters
As women came forward that autumn with allegations against Nassar, secret settlement negotiations were under way between USA Gymnastics and Ms. Maroney, whose father had hired lawyer            Gloria Allred            to go after the organization.
Ms. Maroney and her parents met with a mediator in Los Angeles, according to people familiar with the meeting. For the first time, five years after it happened, Mr. Maroney heard his daughter describe her Tokyo experience.
USA Gymnastics representatives, including Mr. Penny and lawyer            Margaret Holm,             were in a separate room from the Maroneys and their lawyers, including Ms. Allred, while the mediator moved between the two parties, according to people with direct knowledge of the discussions.
During the discussions, USA Gymnastics representatives asked Ms. Maroney for details about her abuse, while encouraging her to take less money than the family had previously sought and to sign a nondisclosure agreement, several of the people say.
Mr. Maroney says USA Gymnastics told the family, through the two parties lawyers and the mediator, that the organization only had up to $6 million in insurance coverage and had to save for other possible settlements. They wanted to help the other girls, Mr. Maroney says he was told.
Ms. Maroney felt the discussions were like a brutal cross-examination, says a person familiar with them.
Ms. Allred took Ms. Maroney out of the room, and Ms. Maroney called her father. Dad, I cant handle this, her father says she told him. Money isnt that important.
Ms. Holm declines to comment on the mediation process but disputes the description of the discussions. I take great pride in representing my clients, and showing great respect to parties who have brought suits, she says.
Ms. Maroney signed a confidential settlement on Dec. 30, 2016, for $1.25 million, the Journal reported in December 2017. By then, scores of women had filed police claims against Nassar. Several had also filed civil claims against USA Gymnastics, Michigan State and others.
Michigan Assistant Attorney General Angela Povilaitis reads a statement for Ms. Maroney during a sentencing hearing for Nassar. Photo: brendan mcdermid/Reuters
The USA Gymnastics board wasnt told of Ms. Maroneys confidential settlement, a former board member says. The board learned a year later, when Ms. Maroney asked in her lawsuit to be released from her nondisclosure agreement.
Ms. Maroney said in her October 2017 Twitter post she was abused by Nassar. Including Ms. Maroney, four of the Fierce Five have come forward to say they are victims of Nassar.
Ms. Maroney largely disappeared from the public eye, apart from a victim-impact statement read on her behalf at Nassars January state sentencing. She remains fragile, her father says, and disheartened she might not be remembered as a world-class athlete but as a victim.
In my whole gymnastics career, I was trained to be quiet, Ms. Maroney said in her New York appearance this week. She said her parents, like those of teammates, are struggling with guilt for having failed to recognize Nassars abuse.
I, at times, she said, question whether my gymnastics career was worth it.
Ms. Maroney poses for a portrait in 2012. Photo: VICTORIA WILL/Associated Press
Write to Louise Radnofsky at louise.radnofsky@wsj.com
Appeared in the April 21, 2018, print edition.
SHOW COMMENTS HIDE COMMENTS (126)
Failed to load comments
Show More Archives
Close
Gymnast McKayla Maroneys years of abuse by team doctor Larry Nassar and its devastating toll
A cherished American athlete suffered a heavy toll from years of sexual abuse by U.S. team doctor Larry Nassar; powerful institutions failed to protect her
From
