['the-washington-post', '466', 'Jeff Stein, Jeff Stein', 'Analysis | These economists say a $1 trillion deficit is just a good start', "What's a 'deficit owl' and why do they make everyone so mad?", 'https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2018/04/20/these-economists-say-1-trillion-deficit-is-just-a-good-start/', 'https://www.washingtonpost.com/resizer/9mS7rlOYSZrjcCZ-qPDt2sbbeI0=/1484x0/arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/NGUYBSL4YYY3XCABVU4KICE2IY.jpg', '2018-04-20T17:36:00Z']
Wonkblog
Analysis
Analysis Interpretation of the news based on evidence, including data, as well as anticipating how events might unfold based on past events
These economists say a $1 trillion deficit is just a good start
by Jeff Stein by Jeff Stein Email the author April 20 at 12:36 PM Email the author
What's a"deficit owl"and why do they make people so mad? (iStock)
Members of both parties are rushing to again sound the alarm about Americas rising deficit, warning of its potentially disastrous impact on the nations financial health.
This month, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that the governments annual deficit would top $1 trillion by 2020 , triggering another round of hand-wringing over the budget gap byRepublicans, Democrats, tea partyers and think tanks of all stripes.
But what if theyre all wrong?
Thats the view of a small group of heterodox economists  self-describedthe deficit owls  who say that the deficit does not pose a problem, and that the proposals to rein in the deficit represent the real threat to the nations well- being. Deficit spending, they say, has given the government extra money to fund social services, stimulate the economy, and react to natural disasters. And all the dire warnings of a coming crisis, they say, are, at best, well-intended alarmism  and, at worst, a sneak attack on welfare, Medicare and other progressive priorities.
Most of the deficit hysteria is political, said L. Randall Wray, a senior scholar at the Levy Economics Institute at Bard College. Its not about economics. The economy is in no danger whatsoever in the foreseeable future of overheating, which is the only time extra deficit spending could be a problem.
Deficit hawks agree that its hard to know when a deficit crisis will occur, but they argue that the consequences are so drastic that even the possibility cant be on the table. They accuse the owls of playing a dangerous game of debt brinkmanship.
Its an unlikely scenario that becomes more likely the bigger and the faster-growing our debt it. But these economists dont really address that risk: They just say it wouldnt happen, which isnt very reassuring, said Marc Goldwein of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.
This view is supported by Washingtons most prominent think tanks , with some even giving awards for fiscal hawkishness, and widely accepted by much of Congress.
Deficit hawks have a list of threats posed by growing U.S. debt, but the owls have their own answer to each one.
1. "If the debt gets too big, creditors will either stop lending to us or start charging tons in interest"
Like several others  before it , the CBOs most recent report warns that current deficit levels make it more likely that America will face a fiscal crisis, in which private investors refuse to finance government borrowing  or at least refuse to lend the government money at low interest rates.
A sudden cutoff from creditors, deficit hawks say, would be the nightmare scenario for the country, with the government failing to pay its bills and undermining trust in U.S. government debt  a pillar of the global financial system. Without willing lenders, the nation would undergo a rapid round of forced austerity, with sharp cuts to social programs hitting at the same time as a severe recession.
Though other countries have faced such a scenario  most notably Argentina in 2001 and Greece after the Great Recession  the deficit owls say this kind of cataclysm almost certainly cannot happen here. Unlike many other countries, America prints and borrows in its own currency. When the Treasury Department needs more money to pay its debts, it issues and sells bonds that can be bought on the open market to fund its obligations.
Federal dollars are something we invent, said John Harvey, professor of economics at Texas Christian University. Default is completely and totally off the table. The government cant possibly go bankrupt in its own currency.
But even if default is off the table, some hawks fear lenders will see massive deficits and start worrying that the government wont pay its debts. That could lead to them demanding higher interest rates and set off a perilous cycle of growing debt and higher rates.
In the view of the owls, before interest rates climbed, the Federal Reserve would step in to hold them down. The Fed sets the range for the rate at which banks borrow money from each other overnight  the federal funds rate. The owls say other interest rates, especially on short-term government debt, tend to closely follow this number.
And while the Fed is independent of the rest of the federal government, the owls say that if the country faced a financial catastrophe, its central bank would step in. The Fed is the market maker, said Pavlina R. Tcherneva, an economist at Bard College. If the Treasury wants to sell bonds, the Fed will do everything possible to make sure it can.
The deficit owls also note that Japan has run extremely high deficits for several years recently without triggering high interest rates. Japans national public debt surpasses one quadrillion yen (a trillion with three zeros tacked on), or 230 times its gross domestic product. YetJapanese interest rates have barely budged .
2."Deficit spending coulddrive out-of-controlinflation."
Deficit spending pumps dollars into the economy, and if those dollars arent accompanied by more goods and services consumers can buy with them, then prices rise  inflation that can slow economic growth and hurt anyone who is on a fixed income or whose pay doesnt keep pace with rising prices. Indeed, former senator Judd Gregg (R-N.H.), co-chair of the advocacy group Fix the Debt, says thats exactly whats happening now, with the deficit putting America on the path to an inflationary event.
The deficit owls do not dispute that higher deficit spending by the government could, under certain circumstances, prompt inflation. But under the current economic conditions, they dont think it will. An economy where higher deficits could cause runaway inflation, they say, would also be one in which theres no slack left  where more spending can spur only greater competition for existing goods and services (hence inflation), rather than growth that creates more goods and services to buy.
What [the hawks are] saying is that the economy is at full employment and we cant expand any further, when we have pretty good evidence that there is quite a bit of slack in the economy, Tcherneva said, noting stubbornly slow growth in wages and high percentages of Americans who remain out of work, though they are not included in the calculation of the official unemployment rate. (The most widely used unemployment rate, currently a low 4.1 percent, counts people who are out of work but seeking a job, but it doesnt account for people who have given up looking.)
Instead, some of the deficit owls believe that we may have too little inflation right now, in part because it would suggest higher growth. Inflation rates have stayed around or below 2percent since the Great Recession. After the massive deficit spending associated with [President Obamas] stimulus and all the warnings of hyperinflation, inflation averaged less than 1.5percent, TCUs Harvey wrote in an email. Indeed, last month, prices actually fell.
3. "Money we spend paying down the debt is money we can't spend anywhere else."
The government is expectedto spend $263 billion in 2017on debt interest payments, and that's projected to jump to $316 billion in 2018. To deficit hawks, that's money that could be spent elsewhere : better schools, health care, military funding, or a even a rainy day fund for the next recession.
But since the deficit owls do not believe the government can run out of money, they say theres no reason to believe these payments are coming at the expense of anything else.
Were all taught that theres a hard and binding financial constraint on spending, but its a relic of the gold standard era  theres a notion well run out of gold coins. But this is a sovereign monetary system, where the amount of currency is determined by the state, Tcherneva said. Its not a trade-off because you can create as many dollars as is necessary to either pay off interest or build bridges.
Other economists disagree, because they see deficit spending limited by the governments unwillingness to trigger a financial panic with higher debt.
4. "High levels of government debt crowd out private investment and hurt the economy."
The CBO and some economists have warned that higher levels of government debt will crowd out private investment, by putting more of the money in the economy in the public sector. When the government borrows, it borrows from households and businesses whose saving would otherwise be financing private investment, the CBO said in its most recent report.
The deficit owls say the government borrowing comes out of a different pool of potential investment than businesses dip into. The deficit hawks believe in what the owls derisively refer to as the loanable funds market theory  the idea that theres a fix pool of investment that can be swallowed up by government deficit financing. But the deficit owls say that bigger government deficits increase the available capital in the private sector by pushing bonds  a kind of asset  into the market.
When they spend more than they take in they create crowding in, putting more money in the private sector, said Stephanie Kelton, an economist at Stony Brook University and a former adviser to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.). This money ends up somewhere.
5. So when are deficits bad?
To be clear, the deficit owlsacknowledgedeficits can pose a serious threat to economic health, particularly by driving up inflation.
Mainstream economists, including those of the center-left, hold that the federal government shouldrun deficits when the economy falls into a recession, asgovernment spending compensates for thefall in private sector spending. (This was the justification used under President Obama to ramp up spending during the Great Recession.)Similarly,traditional economists often believethat the governmentshouldpay off their deficits and run surpluseswhen the economy is growing, to prepare for a downtown.
But the deficit owlsdon't agree that deficit spending should be limited to recessions. They say running government surpluseswill contractprivate sector spending (a position contested by other economists), and that doing sorisks slowing down an economy for no clear reason."It'scompletely fallacious to argue that balance in the budget is some normal state," said James K. Galbraith,a deficit owl and economicsprofessor at the University of Texas at Austin.
Tcherneva, the economist at Bard, suggests imagining an entire economy that consists of one tree that can only produce five oranges.If the government creates deficits simply to outbideveryone else for an orange, then it would only make the supply of oranges more expensive. That would be an example of ill-advised government spending.
"If youcan keep spending and your unemployment rate can keep declining and labor force participation rate keeps improving, then you're not at your resource limit,"Tcherneva said.
6.What if deficits are good?
To the deficit owls, Americas red ink enables a great deal of good. For one, by allowing the government to spend at current levels, deficits avert cuts to social welfare programs that Americans rely on to access health insurance or receive pensions in their old age. The owls see deficit concerns as serving as a smokescreen for those aiming to cut Social Security and Medicare. The hawks are circling above the Social Security Administration, said James K. Galbraith, a deficit owl who is an economics professor at the University of Texas at Austin.
Deficits can be expanded as long as they can continue to reduce unemployment, bring more people into the labor market, and improve economic health in poor parts of the country, Tcherneva said. Galbraith argued that the nation can still afford big investments in long-term capital improvements and infrastructure projects.
Its what a credit economy is for: You borrow in order to build things, Galbraith said. And theres no evidence there would be risk associated with this.
Jeff Stein is a policy reporter on The Washington Post's Wonkblog team. Before joining The Post, Stein was a congressional reporter for Vox, where he wrote primarily about the Democratic Party and the left. In 2014, he founded the local news nonprofit the Ithaca Voice in Upstate New York.
The story must be told.
Your subscription supports journalism that matters.
