['the-washington-post', '468', 'Beth Reinhard, Emma Brown, Beth Reinhard, Emma Brown', 'Stormy Daniels\xe2\x80\x99s former lawyer said to be cooperating with federal probe of Michael Cohen', 'Keith Davidson has been contacted by federal authorities investigating Trump\xe2\x80\x99s personal lawyer and has turned over \xe2\x80\x9climited electronic information,\xe2\x80\x9d a spokesman said.', 'https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/stormy-danielss-former-lawyer-said-to-be-cooperating-with-federal-probe-of-michael-cohen/2018/04/20/3011745e-44ae-11e8-baaf-8b3c5a3da888_story.html', 'https://www.washingtonpost.com/resizer/zsysXUBgts5kcGT-SBAtoQOe8YM=/1484x0/arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/2WEECKCCOUI6RO5CBF3KQKYFUI.jpg', '2018-04-20T13:40:00Z']
Politics
Stormy Danielss former lawyer said to be cooperating with federal probe of Michael Cohen
Michael Cohen, President Trumps personal attorney, center, leaves federal court following a hearing Monday, April 16, 2018, in New York. (AP Photo)
by Beth Reinhard and Emma Brown by Beth Reinhard and Emma Brown Email the author April 20 at 8:40 PM Email the author
Keith Davidson, the former attorney for two women who were paid to keep quiet about their alleged affairs with Donald Trump, has been contacted by federal authorities investigating Trump attorney Michael Cohen and is cooperating with them, a spokesman for Davidson confirmed.
Davidson was asked to providecertain limited electronic information for the probe led by prosecutors in the Southern District of New York, spokesman Dave Wedge said. He has done so and will continue to cooperate to the fullest extent possible under the law, Wedge said in a statement Friday.
Shortly before the 2016 election, Davidson negotiated a confidentiality agreement with Cohen under which porn star Stormy Daniels was paid $130,000.
Davidson also represented Karen McDougal, a Playboy centerfold, in the $150,000 agreement she struck in August 2016 with the National Enquirers parent company, American Media Inc., for the rights to her story. AMI never published the story.
Both Daniels and McDougal have filed lawsuits to get out of their non-disclosure agreements. Earlier this week, McDougal settled with AMI  whose chief executive, David Pecker, is a friend of Trump  and is no longer bound by her contract with the tabloid publisher.
FBI agents raided Cohens Manhattan office last week, as well as his home and a hotel room. According to people with knowledge of the case, he is under federal investigation for bank fraud, wire fraud and campaign finance violations. The inquiry includes payments to women whose stories about Trump could have damaged his presidential campaign.
Stephen Ryan, an attorney for Cohen, has called the raid inappropriate and unnecessary, saying Cohen has cooperated completely with all government entities. Trump called the raid a disgraceful situation and an attack on our country.
According to CNN , the records seized from Cohen included tapes that he recorded of conversations with Davidson. Wedge said that the lawyer never consented to any recordings of his conversations with Cohen and that if such tapes exist, Davidson will pursue all his legal rights under the law.
Davidson has hired Miami attorney Michael D. Padula, who specializes in white-collar crime.
The story must be told.
Your subscription supports journalism that matters.
