['axios', '49', 'Axios', 'Axios situational awareness', 'All the big things.', 'https://www.axios.com/axios-situational-awareness-d8eb6d4a-537b-4a00-9c94-d234f40cf57c.html?utm_source=sidebar', 'https://assets.axios.com/203e9f932cc97836ac2ff4c6c982676c.png', '2018-04-20T16:36:53Z']
Featured
Axios situational awareness
North Korea says it is stopping nuclear and missile testing
Kim Jong-un. Photo: STR/AFP/Getty Images
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has announced the country will stop conducting nuclear tests and launches of intercontinental ballistic missiles starting April 21, and shut down a nuclear test site in the north side of the country, through a broadcast on the state news agency KCNA reports, and President Trump announced in a tweet , later adding quotes from the message.
Read more toggle
Show less
Keep reading95 Words
The details: Kim Jong-un explained, [t]he nuclear test site has done its job, via a statement broadcasted by North Koreas state media, per the New York Times. The statement added the country plans to shut down a nuclear test site in the countrys northern side to guarantee transparency in suspending nuclear tests.
What it means: This confirms North Korea is not only open to freezing nuclear weapons tests, as it has said before, but that it is planning on doing it. It leaves denuclearization on the table and will, in theory, prevent escalation and proliferation.
Plus box
Haley Britzky 5 hours ago
Save
WaPo: Sessions told White House he may leave if Rosenstein is fired
Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Photo: Cheriss May/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
Attorney General Jeff Sessions told White House counsel Don McGahn last weekend that if Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein was fired, he "would have to consider leaving," according to the Washington Post . Axios has not yet confirmed the story.
Why it matters: Rosenstein has come under fire in recent weeks by conservative groups , and there has been speculation that he would be the next to get the boot from Trump. As Axios' Jonathan Swan reported , the problem with Rosenstein is, "[t]hey don't have a clean way to get rid of him."
Read more toggle
Show less
Keep reading63 Words
Per the Post, Sessions following Rosenstein out the door "underscores the political firestorm that Trump would invite" by following through with firing him.
A person familiar with the call between Sessions and McGahn told the Post that "Sessions did not intend to threaten the White House but rather wanted to convey the untenable position that Rosenstein's firing would put him in."
Plus box
