['usa-today', '494', 'NOVALUE', "Here's why Kendrick Lamar won a Pulitzer, according to the jury chair", "Regina Carter, chair of the Pulitzer's five-member music jury, is speaking out about the rapper's controversial win: 'He spends years on his craft.'", 'https://www.freep.com/story/entertainment/music/2018/04/20/pulitzer-jurist-regina-carter-kendrick-lamars-work-really-powerful/536999002?utm_source=google&utm_medium=amp&utm_campaign=speakable', 'https://www.gannett-cdn.com/-mm-/b7e002b129d32fa3b7ff1a9816f2df2368cfd709/c=0-307-2996-2000&r=x1683&c=3200x1680/local/-/media/2018/04/20/DetroitFreeP/DetroitFreePress/636598346150825736-GettyImages-946042000.jpg', '2018-04-21T01:29:05+00:00']
Pulitzer jurist Regina Carter: Kendrick Lamar's hip-hop work 'really powerful'
Prize for hip-hop artist's 'Damn' album shocks world of classical music
Post to Facebook
Pulitzer jurist Regina Carter: Kendrick Lamar's hip-hop work 'really powerful' Prize for hip-hop artist's 'Damn' album shocks world of classical music Check out this story on Freep.com: https://on.freep.com/2HO2ixQ
CancelSend
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
3
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Pulitzer jurist Regina Carter: Kendrick Lamar's hip-hop work 'really powerful'
Brian McCollum , Detroit Free Press Pop Music Critic Published 5:35 p.m. ET April 20, 2018 | Updated 6:11 p.m. ET April 20, 2018
CLOSE
Kendrick Lamar and the queer novel 'Less' are among the 2017 Pulitzer Prize winners. Time
Kendrick Lamar performs during the 2018 Coachella Valley Music And Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Field on April 13, 2018, in Indio, Calif.
(Photo: Larry Busacca, Getty Images for Coachella)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 3 COMMENTEMAILMORE
Kendrick Lamar's Pulitzer Prize triumph this week was greeted by widespread celebration in the hip-hop and mainstream music worlds and no small amount of grumbling frommore traditional quarters.
The L.A. rapper made history Monday when his album "Damn" captured the Pulitzermusic prize, awarded since 1943 to honor "distinguished musical composition by an American."
For both fans and detractors, it was a stunning win.For decades, the music Pulitzer had gone strictly toclassical composers, with threerecent jazz exceptions: Wynton Marsalis in 1997,Ornette Coleman in 2007 and Henry Threadgill in 2016. Lamar wasn't merely the first winner from the hip-hop sphere he was the first from the popular-music universe, period.
But Lamar's selection was merited and meaningful, said Regina Carter, chair of the Pulitzer's five-member music jury.
Speaking with the Free Press, the Detroit-born violinist championed Lamar and hisalbum one of the three unanimously selected finalists presented by the jury to the Pulitzer Board for a final decision.
"It's part of the American art form. We felt that his delivery of the work, his writing, was really powerful in the messages he had," Carter said. "You have to really sit with them, and they have heavier meaning than when you hear them the first time."
"Damn," Lamar's fourth album, is a musically minimalist work rich withstorytelling and commentary that tacklesa wide sweep of subjects: police brutality, the financial system, inner angst, family struggles.
"It's his history;it's our history," said Carter. "And no matter what side of the aisle you're on politically, with all the ugliness going on in the world, it speaks to that in a really creative way."
Detroit-born violinist Regina Carter
(Photo: Detroit Jazz Festival)
Pushback has largely come from classical musicians and enthusiasts, largely on social media and webforums. Much of it has been collected and presented albeit with anonymity at the Twitter feed NewMusicDrama , which held a vote Friday for "Ultimate Bad Pulitzer Take."
"My outrage at a rapper winning the thing has NOTHING to do with 'race' (his or mine), but everything to do with culture," read one post. "Rap music is GARBAGE, and a purveyor of it winning the Pulitzer is the ultimate in philistinism."
Wrote a less incendiary online critic: "The Pulitzer Prize now has no meaning in classical music. It's over."
"For some, it's still unthinkable," Carter told the Free Press. "But (the jury's selection) was not that it was a hip-hop project. It's that it was Kendrick Lamar and what he delivered."
Other skeptics have questioned the Pulitzer decision not because of a distaste for Lamar or hip-hop, per se. Perhaps understandably, they're worried it signals the erosion of one of the few remaining high-profile platforms for recognizing classical music.
Then again, this is an award that has been charged with debate through its lifetime. Even within the classical realm, the Pulitzers were long criticized for emphasizing the work of abstract, challenging high-modernist artists at the expense of others. And it wasn't until 1996 that a black composer  George Walker  won the prize at all.
Carter, who made her name with the Detroit outfit Straight Ahead in the '80s and went on to a celebrated New York jazz career,said Lamar's Pulitzer may help right some misconceptions about the art of hip-hop.
"Some people will argue that (traditional) composers spend years writing their scores, writing their pieces, but they think, 'Well, here's a hip-hop artist who's just going in off-the-cuff," she said. "That's not true. If anybody reads about (Lamar), he spends years on his craft."
Contact Detroit Free Press music writer Brian McCollum: 313-223-4450 or bmccollum@freepress.com.
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 3 COMMENTEMAILMORE
Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2HO2ixQ
Share your feedback to help improve our site experience!
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.
More Stories
