['usa-today', '495', 'NOVALUE', 'Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens indicted \xe2\x80\x94 again. He\xe2\x80\x99s accused of stealing charity donor list for campaign', 'Greitens also faces a separate case for allegedly photographing a partially nude woman without her consent', 'https://www.news-leader.com/story/news/politics/2018/04/20/eric-greitens-indicted-again-he-suspected-stealing-charity-he-created/535650002?utm_source=google&utm_medium=amp&utm_campaign=speakable', 'https://www.gannett-cdn.com/-mm-/a1d7264329d56d4ace3f6e10812e5be38cb5785d/c=0-223-2396-1577&r=x1683&c=3200x1680/local/-/media/2018/04/11/Springfield/Springfield/636590801277724103-AP18101821131881.jpg', '2018-04-21T00:00:25+00:00']
Eric Greitens was indicted again. He is suspected of stealing from the charity he created.
Will Schmitt , WSCHMITT@NEWS-LEADER.COM Published 5:40 p.m. CT April 20, 2018 | Updated 8:30 p.m. CT April 20, 2018
CLOSE
Gov. Eric Greitens' tenure in Missouri has been marked by his ongoing scandal regarding his actions in 2015, during the early stages of his campaign. He faces a felony charge in St. Louis on suspicion of taking a photograph of woman with whom he had an affair without her permission while she was partially naked, blindfolded and restrained in the basement of Greitens' home. Will Schmitt/News-Leader
Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens speaks at a news conference about allegations related to his extramarital affair with his hairdresser, in Jefferson City, Mo., Wednesday, April 11, 2018. Greitens initiated a physically aggressive unwanted sexual encounter with his hairdresser and threatened to distribute a partially nude photo of her if she spoke about it, according to testimony from the woman released Wednesday by a House investigatory committee. (Julie Smith/The Jefferson City News-Tribune via AP)
(Photo: Julie Smith, AP)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 1 COMMENTEMAILMORE
Gov. Eric Greitens has been charged with a felony on suspicion of stealing an electronic list of donors to the pro-veterans charity he founded in order to raise money for his political career, St. Louis Circuit Attorney Kim Gardner said Friday evening in a news release.
The new chargeagainst the Republican governor comes atthe tail end of the three-year statute of limitations, the Democratic prosecutor said.
According to a probable cause statement, Greitens instructed another person to disclose a donor list owned by The Mission Continues, the nonprofit Greitens founded, to a "political fundraiser" without the charity's permission.
"The Mission Continues employee handbook and the non-disclosure agreements
prohibited the disclosure of the donor list and the (retention) of it by anyone not employed by and working on behalf of The Mission Continues," court documents say."The Mission Continues conflict of interest agreement signed by board membersprohibited the personal use of The Mission Continues assets, including the donor list."
CLOSE
Gov. Eric Greitens makes a public statement on April 11, 2018, in the Missouri Governor's Office ahead of a report described his alleged sexual misconduct during an affair he had in 2015 Wochit
Greitens knew the charity didn't consent to the donor list's disclosure, according to the probable cause statement. The person who disclosed the list appears to have been a former employee of the charity and of another company linked to Greitens.
"At the time of the April 22, 2015 disclosure of the donor list, the donor list resided and existed internal to acomputer or computer system used by (the former employee) for the purpose of conducting business on behalf of The GreitensGroup and/or Greitens for Missouri, as well as a computer or computer system belonging to the Mission Continues," court documents say. "The defendant and (the former employee) disclosed the donor list to the Fundraiser for the purpose of obtaining propertyof five hundred dollars or more."
The charge of computer tampering is the second felony Greitens faces. He was indicted Feb. 22 in a separate case for allegedly photographing a woman without her consent while she had a reasonable expectation of privacy and making the image accessible by computer.
The legislative panel investigating the facts of Greitens' first indictment released an initial report last week that included sworn testimony from the woman with whom Greitens had an affair in 2015. The woman alleged that Greitens slapped her in the face and coerced her into oral sex while she cried in his basement.
Posted!
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens speaks at a news conference about allegations related to his extramarital affair with his hairdresser, in Jefferson City, Mo., Wednesday, April 11, 2018. Greitens initiated a physically aggressive unwanted sexual encounter with his hairdresser and threatened to distribute a partially nude photo of her if she spoke about it, according to testimony from the woman released Wednesday by a House investigatory committee. (J.B. Forbes/St. Louis Post-Dispatch via AP)
J.B. Forbes, AP
Fullscreen
Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens speaks at a news conference about allegations related to his extramarital affair with his hairdresser, in Jefferson City, Mo., Wednesday, April 11, 2018. Greitens initiated a physically aggressive unwanted sexual encounter with his hairdresser and threatened to distribute a partially nude photo of her if she spoke about it, according to testimony from the woman released Wednesday by a House investigatory committee. (Julie Smith/The Jefferson City News-Tribune via AP)
Julie Smith, AP
Fullscreen
Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens speaks at a news conference about allegations related to his extramarital affair with his hairdresser, in Jefferson City, Mo., Wednesday, April 11, 2018. Greitens initiated a physically aggressive unwanted sexual encounter with his hairdresser and threatened to distribute a partially nude photo of her if she spoke about it, according to testimony from the woman released Wednesday by a House investigatory committee. (J.B. Forbes/St. Louis Post-Dispatch via AP)
J.B. Forbes, AP
Fullscreen
Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens speaks at a news conference about allegations related to his extramarital affair with his hairdresser, in Jefferson City, Mo., Wednesday, April 11, 2018. Greitens initiated a physically aggressive unwanted sexual encounter with his hairdresser and threatened to distribute a partially nude photo of her if she spoke about it, according to testimony from the woman released Wednesday by a House investigatory committee. (J.B. Forbes/St. Louis Post-Dispatch via AP)
J.B. Forbes, AP
Fullscreen
Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens speaks at a news conference about allegations related to his extramarital affair with his hairdresser, in Jefferson City, Mo., Wednesday, April 11, 2018. Greitens initiated a physically aggressive unwanted sexual encounter with his hairdresser and threatened to distribute a partially nude photo of her if she spoke about it, according to testimony from the woman released Wednesday by a House investigatory committee. (J.B. Forbes/St. Louis Post-Dispatch via AP)
J.B. Forbes, AP
Like this topic? You may also like these photo galleries:
Replay
Gardner is prosecuting both cases. Greitens, a Republican, has accused Gardner of liberal bias and has characterized efforts to investigate his actions as politically motivated.
However, the current charge was advanced, in part, by a fellow Republican.
Attorney General Josh Hawley announced Tuesday his officehad uncovered evidence showing criminal wrongdoing by Greitens and had provided his findings to Gardner and a committee of lawmakers investigating Greitens.
CLOSE
In a Tuesday press conference, Attorney General Josh Hawley says Gov. Eric Greitens' allegedly committed computer tampering regarding a list of donors to The Mission Continues, the pro-veterans charity the governor founded. Will Schmitt/News-Leader
After Gardner announced the charges Friday, Hawley released a statement.
"St. Louis Circuit Attorney Kim Gardner reviewed the evidence turned over to her by my office and determined that there is probable cause to file criminal charges against the Governor," Hawley said. "The Office stands ready to assist the Circuit Attorneys Office where appropriate and if needed. These are serious chargesand an important reminder that no one is above the law in Missouri. Like all criminal defendants, Governor Greitens is presumed innocent under the law until proven guilty."
More: Greitens askedfor court order to block Hawley from investigating him
Greitens was not arrested, according to a spokeswoman for Gardner's office. Asummons has been issued and the circuit attorney's office intends to work with Greitens' attorneys.
Legislative leaders in the Missouri House and Senate have called for Greitens to resign. Some, including the top Republican in the Senate, have called upon the House to begin impeachment proceedings.
Democratic leadersin the Missouri House had previously opposed delaying impeachment until a special summer session and said Friday the new charge made it all the more urgent to impeach Greitens as soon as possible.
"One way or another, Eric Greitens short tenure as Missouri governor is about to end. The only person who doesnt understand that is Eric Greitens," said House Minority Leader Gail McCann Beatty, D-Kansas City."Since he will not resign, the House of Representatives must immediately begin impeachment proceedings. This is far too important to delay to special session a month or more from now."
A House communications staffer said GOP leaders did not plan to comment Friday night on Greitens latest felony charge.
More: What would the process be to impeach Gov. Eric Greitens?
The governor responds
Greitens has denied criminal wrongdoing and has said he will be vindicated by his May trial on the invasion of privacy charge. Friday evening, he responded to the latest charge against him by reiterating criticism of Gardner's handling of his first felony charge.
"Her original case is falling apart  so today, shes brought a new one," Greitens wrote in a Facebook post."By now, everyone knows what this is: this prosecutor will use any charge she can to smear me.
"Thank goodness for the Constitution and our court system. In the United States of America, youre innocent until proven guilty. In the United States of America, you get your day in court.
"And when I have my day in court, I will clear my name. People will know the truth."
Greitens said that during his time with The Mission Continues, "we helped thousands of veterans, won national awards for excellence, and became one of the finest veterans charities in the country."
And, he said, "I will have my day in court. I will clear my name.
"This prosecutor can come after me with everything she's got, but as all faithful people know: in time comes the truth. And the time for truth is coming."
More: In Gov. Greitens' 'hot potato' criminal case, lawyers accuse opponents of misconduct
In aseparate statement provided by the public relations firm representing the governor, Greitens' attorney Ed Dowd said the computer tampering charge "makes no sense at all" and called his client's early charity work  when he forewent a salary from the organization  "an extraordinary act of public service."
Edward L. Dowd Jr.
(Photo: Robert Cohen, AP)
"Now hes being accused of stealing an email list from an organization he built? Give me a break," Dowd said in the statement."Not only did he create this list donor by donor, friend by friend, but the Mission Continues still has the list."
"The court will find Eric innocent of yet another absurd charge, and the people of Missouri will learn the true motives behind this action soon enough," Dowd continued. "This allegation is absurd, and Eric will be found innocent of this accusation in court."
Post by EricGreitens .
How we got here
The Mission Continues is a nonpartisan nonprofit organization Greitens founded in 2007 after he served as a Navy SEAL. Previously known as The Center for Citizen Leadership, the organization's mission is to help veterans rejoin civil society after military service.
Greitens served as the nonprofit's CEO for several years before resigning Jan. 1, 2014. Over the same time period, he formed other companies to handle his motivational speaking and book-writing business.
There was a formal agreement between The Mission Continues and one of these companies, The Greitens Group, according to charity documents.Greitens was the CEO of both organizations, which had a "cost allocation agreement that governsthe allocation of office and employee benefit expense for both the CEO and Executive Assistant."
"Although Greitens Group employees may volunteer for (The Mission Continues), at no point is any Organization staff member or intern permitted to assist with any Greitens Group activities," according to nonprofit reports.
The Greitens Group reimbursed The Mission Continues about $8,000 per year for costs including rent, phone and internet services, "as well as a percentage of the CEO and Executive Assistant's monthly benefit expense," according to charity documents.
The Associated Press reported in October 2016 that Greitens' gubernatorial campaign had a list of people who donated $1,000 to The Mission Continues.
"No, we were not working off of a Mission Continues donor list," Greitenstold the Associated Press, which reported his comment in a story alongside the factthat 85 percent of the money he received in his first two months of campaigning was contributed by donors to The Mission Continues.
As the Missouri Ethics Commission later determined, Greitens' campaign received the list and used it for fundraising purposes. Greitens' campaignpaid a fineand reported the list as a $600 contribution from a former campaign worker, leaving unexplained how the campaign worker obtained the list.
TheSt. Louis Post-Dispatchreported in late February that a Greitens Group employee who also previously worked for the charity emailed the list  created in 2014  to two Greitens campaign workers in January 2015.
The charity has denied giving donor information to Greitens. If The Mission Continues got involved with his political career in that way, it could endanger itstax-exempt nonprofit status.
