['wired', '505', 'Jason Parham', 'Beyonc\xc3\xa9, Kendrick Lamar, Kanye West, and How the World Seeks to Limit Black Genius', 'This week, the precision and thunder of artistic exceptionalism were on full display. So were critics.', 'https://www.wired.com/story/beyonce-kendrick-kanye-black-genius/', 'https://media.wired.com/photos/5ad91c9388598127f4ad013b/191:100/pass/Pressures_of_Genius-FA.jpg', '2018-04-20T13:00:00Z']
The Fall of the TV Family in Trump's America
Black artistic genius is a statement or body of work that exists in the absolute ; it is singular brilliance that, even if consumed by the masses, was nurtured in and speaks to the pulse of black life. Such work confers an awakening upon its audience. Black genius work is transformative and transcendent, illuminating both the interior self and the behaviors of the exterior world. (Think of Stevie Wonders music or of Toni Morrisons writing.) Its not hard, then, to see why the Pulitzer committee might select DAMN., a bold account of fact and prophecy. Lamar now finds himself in the company of supreme storytellers like Ornette Coleman, Margo Jefferson, August Wilson, and Philip Roth.
According to Billboard , the vote among jurors was unanimous in the rappers favorsince the inaugural music prize in 1943, recipients had exclusively been classical or jazz musicianswith one committee member citing the album for its symmetry of melody, harmony, counterpoint, [and] texture. The albums strength, though, lies in its insistence on sight. Lamars is a divine vision, and much of the album is filled with a linguistic searching. A track like FEAR. charts the rappers private frictionshe wants us to see what he sees; the pull of death, the despair that feels a crater wide. Ill prolly die tryna defuse two homies arguin/ Ill prolly die 'cause thats what you do when youre 17, he raps. All worries in a hurry, I wish I controlled things. He wants to make sense of the fog around him. He looks for a way out of it; he searches through verse . What secures the album as a chronicle of force and feeling is its sustained elevation, its mastery of self.
The equally masterful work of Beyonc conjures a comparable insistence on the senses. Her headlining performance at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival this past weekend (shell headline again on Saturday) was genius in real time. It wasnt so much a vision of black genius being born as it was black genius, thoroughly defined, doing what it doesstir, exclaim, surprise, fulfill. From the moment she materialized on stage as Nefertiti, it was clear: this would be no uniform benediction. She was going to lead the audience somewhere untraveled.
Beyonc's Coachella performance wasnt so much a vision of black genius being born as it was black genius, thoroughly defined, doing what it doesstir, exclaim, surprise, fulfill.
Across a two-hour set, the most meaningful striations were in fact the images she mustered so alluringly. This was no mistake; as Instagram and her recent visual projects can attest, the singers greatest unsung gift is the art of image curation. Her source material was radiant and exhaustive: HBCUs and historically black fraternities and sororities; Houstons chopped-and-screwed music; the black church; the Afro-diaspora. Most of all, it was the very sight of Beyonc herselfand understanding that theres a tangible power found in seeing what she presents as ordinary, grand, and beautiful. There was Coachella before Beyonc; now there will be Coachella after Beyonc. (#Beychella has remained a top trending topic all week.)
Kanye West embodies singularity in this way, too. He belongs to a genre of artist whose creative outpouringparticularly his music, prolific and glacial, with an appetite for theatermarks a before and after. In recent years, hes taken a multi-hyphenate approach to his work: he raps and produces (his follow-up to 2016s The Life of Pablo is said to arrive June 1), he conceptualizes furniture, he designs clothing for Adidas. Its genius as abstractionfree-flowing and open-armed. I dont wish to be number one anymore, I wish to be water, he said in a recent talk with interior designer Axel Vervoordt. I wish to be closer to UNICEF or something where I can take the information that I have and help as many people as possible.
One way West intends to help people is through Break the Simulation,  an experimental philosophy book hes issuing via Twitter in scattered bursts (Cloud Atlas author David Mitchell performed a similar literary feat in 2014 when he wrote a short story across 280 tweets). West is an enigmatic presence on the platformhes scrubbed his account clean more than onceand whether Break the Simulation bears the authority of an actual book is beside the point. His ruminations point to a larger undertaking. No publisher or publicist will tell me what to put where or how many pages to write,  he wrote in one tweet . This is not a financial opportunity this is an innate need to be expressive.
Expression is also a matter of sightthe desire for others to see as you see. One might be quick to misunderstand his theories on self-value (As a creative your ideas are your strongest form of currency) or purpose (Some people have to work within the existing consciousness while some people can shift the consciousness) as total bluster, but Wests tweets sync squarely with his career-long artistic project: to create a new template with the hope that one might access a vision of untapped possibilities.
I get it. Its much easier to be cynical. The revolutionary nature of black genius, and the pressures of sustained excellence, invite all manner of heresy. It welcomes unwarranted crucifixion. One common rebuke to black genius in the public eye is the belief that it can only prevail as a single entity: there can only be one of us. This week an argument broke out online pitting the otherworldly talent of Beyonc against the otherworldly talent of Michael Jackson (who many regard as the greatest music artist to ever live).
The work of Beyonc, West, and Lamar was a reminder that black genius exists in the multiple.
Fans eagerly debated the dispute, but that it was even volleyed gives credence to a cultural falsity. In part, its reflective of how blackness is often puppeteered in the mainstreamthe notion and need for us to have one black leader, one master artist, one athlete of wonder-inducing fiber. And its not that the world only wants to grant black excellence a single avatar, its that theres always been a drive to crown a Greatest of All Time. This sort of argument works to disparage the majesty and might of Beyoncs Coachella set. Her work can sit alongside Jacksons; it need not bow to it or unseat it. They can live together in conversation, emboldening each other.
This week the work of Beyonc, Kanye West, and Kendrick Lamar was a reminder that black genius exists in the multiple. It has many forms, faces, shapes. It does not seek to be made small through cynicism or controlonly to be itself, loud and unyielding. Thursday afternoon, West let loose another barrage of tweets, one of which was a clip of Lauryn Hill from her 2001 MTV: Unplugged live show. He included no commentary with the footage, and let Hill do the speaking.
It was a fitting selection; the years following her 1998 debut, The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill, Hills genius was cast as obnoxious and difficult. But the work itself could not be denied. It took a long time for me to understand, you know, what I am is what I am, and I cant be afraid to expose that to the public. Always getting in trouble, trying to dress it up, she says in the clip. Im just tired of that. Tired of that. Tired of frontin.
More WIRED Culture
Inside Wyatt Cenac's bold new HBO experiment on policing in America
The Ryan Coogler Effect : What Black Panther's success means for black directors in Hollywood
How Atlanta, the most innovative show on TV, reinvented itself for Season 2
Related Video
Gadgets
How Hip-Hop Producer Steve Lacy Makes Hits With ... His Phone
Steve Lacy is a pretty big deal. He's part of the band The Internet, he's a producer for J. Cole and Kendrick Lamar, and he just put out his first solo album which he made on his iPhone.
