['bloomberg', '67', 'Karen Weise, Saritha Rai', 'Engineers Are Leaving Trump\xe2\x80\x99s America for the Canadian Dream', 'The long wait for green cards was bad enough. Antagonism toward immigrants is pushing skilled foreigners across the border.', 'http://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2018-04-20/h-1b-workers-are-leaving-trump-s-america-for-the-canadian-dream', 'https://assets.bwbx.io/images/users/iqjWHBFdfxIU/iBa4DGpdH_UI/v0/1200x734.jpg', '2018-04-20T04:01:18Z']
limits how many people from any given country can be granted green cards, and because Indians get
about three-quarters of all H-1Bs , their backlog has grown. The couple began considering where they might go: to Singapore, to a European tech hub such as Berlin, or even to India. Then a friend of a friend mentioned Toronto.
In 1967, Canada became the first country to adopt a points-based immigration system. The country regularly tweaks how it rates applicants based on national goals and research into what makes for successful integration: A job offer
used to come with 600 points , but now its worth just 200.
Other factors like speaking fluent English or Frenchor, even better, bothhave been
given more weight over the years . Country of origin is irrelevant.
In 2016, Canada
increased national immigration levels to 300,000 new permanent residents annually. Last year, in consultation with trade groups, it created a program called the Global Skills Strategy to issue temporary work permits to people with job offers in certain categories, including senior software engineers, in as little as two weeks. Since the program started in June, more than 5,600 people have been granted permits, from the U.S., India, Pakistan, Brazil, and elsewhere.
The MaRS Discovery District in Toronto.
Photographer: Mark Sommerfeld for Bloomberg Businessweek
When he and Chaudhary decided to move, Rangnekar had an idea for a startup aimed at helping developers use advanced programming interfaces, or APIs, to build apps, but neither of them had a job offer. Still, for Canada at least, they were desirable applicants. Standing in the bright kitchen of their rented row house, their 3-year-old son slurping strawberry ice cream, they explain how simple it was to go online back in San Jose and, using a calculator provided by the Canadian government, determine with relative certainty that they would qualify for permanent residency. The hardest part about applying was taking a photo that met Canadas specifications. She sent them to me, and I was like, This looks OK,  Rangnekar says. Chaudhary cuts him off: I was like, No! It has to be centered like this! 
Once Trump was elected, Canadians would cautiously ask Rangnekar, What do you think about him? I make it clear what side Im on, he says. Rangnekar watched as the travel ban triggered sweeping protests, legal challenges, and, among many in Trumps base, red-blooded exultation. The nationalist wave hit home for many H-1B workers that February when a white man walked into a bar in Olathe, Kansas, shouted Get out of my country! and
shot two Indian engineers .
Trump has since called for broad cuts to legal immigration and accused the H-1B system in particular of stealing jobs from American workers. Hes also advocated adopting a points-based system similar to Canadas, but since Congress has to approve any changes to immigration law, its hard to see the U.S. replicating the flexibility of the Canadian system.
At first, after Rangnekar started MOV North, Peoples questions were like, Tell us about Canada,  he says. That was really it. They wanted to know the basicsjobs, schools, snow. Over time, as people began seriously considering a move, they asked detailed questions about the immigration process. I was like one of them on the other side, he says. Topics of interest now range from how to get fingerprinted for the FBI background check Canada requires to tips for getting letters from former employers detailing work experience.
Anand Iyer was living near San Jose when he stumbled on a post about MOV North that Rangnekar had put on the Q&A platform Quora. Iyer had an H-1B visa through his work for a cloud-services company and a house in Silicon Valley where he lived with his wife, but the uncertainty of waiting in the green card line was getting to him. Friends in the same boat would constantly remind us that we might have to leave the country in weeks if our H-1B extension did not come through, he says.
The couple eventually sold their home and moved to Mississauga, outside of Toronto, with their 2-year-old. Iyer still works remotely for the same company, but he took a pay cut to reflect the lower cost of living. Taxes are higher, but the government provides more, including health care and preschool. List prices for single-family homes in Iyers suburb and row houses in Rangnekars hipper neighborhood have risen to around $900,000 (roughly C$1.1 million)not cheap, but not Bay Area. All told, Iyer finds his quality of life has improved. Silicon Valley is way more competitive, he says. Hes remained active on the MOV North forums, answering questions rather than asking them. His responses have already persuaded some friends of his wifes who were caught in green card paralysis to apply for passage into Canada.
Co-workers at the MaRS Discovery District.
Photographer: Mark Sommerfeld for Bloomberg Businessweek
In MOV Norths early days, Rangnekar tended to the site at night after working on his startup all day. But as the volume of questions coming in increased, so did the amount of time the site demanded. People would email to thank himthen ask for more help. That motivated me because it tells you youre kinda doing something right, he says. Very few people wrote to me about my APIs. He began wondering if MOV North could became his primary business.
As recently as a few years ago, the kind of jobs that might interest a top engineer werent plentiful in Toronto, but thats changing. Google, Uber, and Amazon are expanding their engineering outposts, and the Canadian government is pouring money into artificial intelligence research and facilities such as the MaRS Discovery District, a tech incubator whose startups have employed more than 6,000 people as of the end of 2016. Theres work to be found in other Canadian cities, too. Montreal is home to Googles AI research lab, the e-commerce giant Shopify Inc. is based in Ottawa, and the social media manager Hootsuite Inc. is Vancouvers hometown darling, though most people Rangnekar talks with are interested in Toronto.
For now, the differences between U.S. and Canadian immigration policies are creating major opportunities for Canadian entrepreneurs to lure workers who otherwise would have looked south. Bob Vaez was raised in Toronto, and in the 2000s, Vaez worked for Silicon Valley chipmaker Nvidia Corp. on a TN work permit, a provision under the North American Free Trade Agreement that makes it easy for Canadian professionals to work in the U.S. The TN, like the H-1B, is tied to employment, so when Vaez decided to start his own company, that was that. To me it was, This is the land of opportunity,  he says. And the next thing, I got a call from the companys lawyers, like, You know, you have to leave the U.S. in five days.  He knew Canada could be more welcoming. Vaezs engineer parents immigrated from Iran, but his aunts came over as refugees during the Cultural Revolution. Weve got the point system, but there is also a different situation when there is humanity at stake, he says.
Vaez returned to Toronto and co-founded EventMobi, which builds apps for conventions and corporate training sessions. He hopes to take advantage of the uncertainty in the U.S., in part, by working with MOV North on a new hiring platform Rangnekar is building. Once its up and running, companies will be able to search for applicants, which his algorithm ranks based on their relevant skills and experience. Im a software guy. I just look for any excuse to automate something, Rangnekar says. He knows the business wellafter all, he spent years at LinkedIn. One advantage he has over traditional recruiters, as he sees it, is that people who sign up for his site have already expressed interest in Canada. So far thousands of people have registered, all saying they want to move.

