['bloomberg', '68', 'Ben Steverman', 'The Rich Are Betting On Living to 100', 'The wealthy are willing to pay for a longer life. The successor to income inequality is longevity inequality.', 'http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-20/the-rich-are-betting-on-living-to-100', 'https://assets.bwbx.io/images/users/iqjWHBFdfxIU/i2kMnEguAngM/v0/1200x800.jpg', '2018-04-20T04:00:12Z']
Wellness
The Rich Are Betting On Living to 100
The wealthy are willing to pay for a longer life. The successor to income inequality is longevity inequality.
By
@bsteverman More stories by Ben Steverman
Photographer: BraunS/E+ via Getty Images
Money might not buy love, but it can buy better health. And, to live as long as possible, the worlds wealthyare willing to pay up.
Over the past few decades, the average persons lifespanhas risen almost everywhere in the world.In China, the U.S.and most of Eastern Europe, the average life expectancy at birth has reached the late 70s, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. People in Western Europe andJapan, meanwhile, can expect to live into their early 80s.
Most richpeople, however, are counting on living even longera lot longer, as in two decades more thanaverage. In a new UBS Financial Services
survey , 53 percent of wealthy investors said they expected to live to 100.
Hitting triple digits wont be easy, but its not as outlandish as it used to be. The average Japanese woman now has a life expectancy of 87, OECD
data show, compared with 81years for men. And many studies have shown that the wealthy have a built-in longevity advantage.
In the U.S., for example, the richest 1 percent of American women by income live more than 10 years longer than the poorest 1 percent, a 2016
study in the Journal of the American Medical Association found. For men, the gap between the richest and poorest Americans is almost 15 years.
The rich also seem to know that living to 100 is a pricey prospect, one that requires more spending on health care, better food, exercise and other services that can lengthen life. Also, you have to keep paying for everything that comes from hanging around additional decades. In the UBS survey, which focused on people with more than $1 million in investable assets,91 percent said theyre making financial changes due to increased life expectancy. Even the wealthy worry about rising health-care costs, the survey suggests.
The rich are more than willing to sacrifice money for extra longevity. Nine of 10 wealthy people agreed that health is more important than wealth. Asked by UBS how much of their fortune theyd be willing to give up to guarantee an extra 10 years of healthy life, the average responses varied by wealth level.Investors who are barely millionaires,with $1 million to $2 million in net worth, were willing to give up a third of their nest egg foran additional decade of life.Investors with more than $50 million were willing to part with almost half of their fortune.
The worlds trend toward longer life has featured an exception in recent yearsthe U.S. The life expectancy of Americans has
declined for two years in a row, an anomaly that can be blamed in part on thecountrys opioid abuse crisis. But even before U.S. lifespans started
slipping because of drug use, health and longevity statisticssignificantly lagged those ofother wealthy countries in Western Europe and Asia.
Perhaps its not surprising,then, that rich Americans surveyed by UBS had different attitudes from the wealthy elsewhere in the worldthey were more pessimistic about making it to age 100. Just 30 percent of the American rich expect to hit the century mark. While they were the most worried about rising health-care costs, they were the least likely to be adjusting their finances for the prospect ofliving longer.
If rich Americans arent planning for the extra costs of longevity, they could be making a mistake.Studies
show that the wealthy in the U.S. are increasingly insulated from thedepressing health trends afflicting most Americans.A2016
study by University of California at Berkeley professors EmmanuelSaezandGabriel Zucmancompared the death rates for American men aged65 to 79 across several decades by wealth. If these mens wealth placed them in the top 1 percent, theirmortality rates in the early 1980swere 12 percent lower than average. Twenty-five years later, the wealthiestAmerican mens death rates had plungedto 40 percent belowaverage.
Rising inequality is about more than just a widening gap in wealth and income. The richest Americans are also living much longer, healthier lives than everyone else.
Before it's here, it's on the Bloomberg Terminal.
