['bloomberg', '69', 'Kim Bhasin, Justina Vasquez', 'Why a Cashmere Sweater Can Cost $2,000 \xe2\x80\xa6 or $30', 'The rise of cashmere has created an oddly wide price gap for plain sweaters.', 'http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-19/why-a-cashmere-sweater-can-cost-2-000-or-30', 'https://assets.bwbx.io/images/users/iqjWHBFdfxIU/i2o7oIIdmySg/v1/1200x800.jpg', '2018-04-19T09:00:12Z']
Why a Cashmere Sweater Can Cost $2,000  or $30
The rise of cashmere has created an oddly wide price gap for plain sweaters.
By
Cashmere pullovers on the move ata Loro Pianastore in Milan.
Photographer: Alessia Pierdomenico/Bloomberg
A plain, yet meticulously crafted, sweater made of the worlds finest cashmere can cost $2,000 or more from premier fashion labels such as LoroPiana. You can also grab a simple sweater of 100 percentcashmereoff a discount rack at Uniqlo for as little as $29.90.
Made from the softest wool produced bycertain breeds of goats,such as the Zalaa Ginst white goat and Tibetan Plateau goat,cashmere was once reserved for the wealthiest fashionistas. (Napoleon Bonapartes wife helped popularize the fabric.) But over the past two decades, its cachet skyrocketed and cheaper garments flooded the market.
Nearly $1.4 billion of cashmere garments were exported globally in 2016, up from $1.2 billion in 2010, according to United Nations trade data. That's nearly 5 million kilograms worth of pullovers, cardigans, and other tops. Now its seemingly everywhere, at every price point. Ubiquity can spell trouble for a product as it becomes more of a commodity, especially one thats been historically marketed as a luxury item.
Sowhat makes one sweater better than another?The price depends on the quality of the yarn, where the garment was manufactured, the number of units purchased by the brand, and the markup.
Dyed cashmere fleeces being spun at Loro Piana SpA's plant in Roccapietra, Italy.
Photographer: Alessia Pierdomenico/Bloomberg
The quality of the raw material often matters most. Lengthier cashmere fibers maintain their integrity for a longer time, allowinggarments to retain their structure.Pillingthe small balls thatform on the fabric as it chafesis more common in garments made of shorter cashmere strands. These days, manufacturers frequently make the clothesout of a mix of lengths to balance quality with cost.
The thickness of the yarn used for the fabric determines its durability. So-called single-ply yarn is the weakest and can quickly lead to holes in a favorite sweater. Higher-quality cashmere pieces are typically two or three strands thick.
Finer and smoother individual strandscreate softer garments, but they are rareand thus, cost more. American consumersvalue this softness above all else.
The customer cares more about the hand-feel than they care about the durability or the color saturation, said Matt Scanlan, chief executive officer ofsustainable cashmere label Naadam. They dont even care if it starts to pill. Weve just become used to it.
Cashmere goats are bred in various locations around the world, including Australia, China, and Mongolia, but Scotland and Italy are known for cashmere-manufacturing prowess. Luxury fashion houses such as Loro Pianaand Brunello Cuccinellidepend on theexpertiseof their workers to wash, treat, and refine the fabric. Cashmere, for instance, repels a lot of dye. Italy,however, has developed ways to achieve strong saturation.
Not every manufacturertakes such care. Blended versions of cashmere sweaters, available at most retailers these days,can contain varying quantities ofthe fabric. In some cases,as little as 5 percent of a garment is made from the good stuff, with the rest a combination of mass-market fabrics such as polyester or nylon. The product is still marketed as a cashmere-blend.
Cashmere clothes displayed on shelves in aUniqlo storein Singapore.
Photographer: Ore Huiying/Bloomberg
Occasionally, even fake cashmeremakes it to store shelves."There is certainly fraud on this front, saysFrances Kozen, a director at the Cornell Institute of Fashion and Fiber Innovation. Deceitful sellers and counterfeiters sometimes create cashmere blends labeled 100 percent cashmere that contain wool, viscoserayon, and acrylicand possibly even rat fur, she says.
The lower-quality blends, occasionaloutright fraud, and ubiquityhas diluted cashmeres luxe reputation, and shoppers have slowly gotten used to lower-quality product.
The industry is attempting to rehabilitate the fabrics reputation by educating consumers as towherecashmere comes from. Naadam, Scanlans cashmere label,assures customers that it uses only the longest fibers, promising that this will make the garmentslast longer. The labeltouts its sustainable grazing practices andlack of chemicals or bleaches. Sweaters from Naadam arent cheap, going for$125 to $225, so the brand must show shoppers why its worth their cash.
Cashmere still has a lot of meaning for people, even though a lot of brands have bastardized what a lot of words mean, saysShilpa Shah, co-founder of clothing and accessories label Cuyana. The brands cashmere sweaters are manufactured inScotland and Italy and cost from $155 to $495.They dont match up to the quality of what youll find from designers at a much higher price, but Shah insiststhey get close.
As for the lesser-quality cashmere being sold, Shah has an optimistic view: At leastshoppers aretrying some kind of cashmereand may seek out better versions.In some sense, I should be thanking them, Shah saysof the cheap cashmere sellers,because its an introduction to what the material could be.
Before it's here, it's on the Bloomberg Terminal.
