['breitbart-news', '72', 'Pam Key', "Avenatti: 'Cohen Is Going to Flip' Causing Trump to 'Ultimately Resign the Presidency\xe2\x80\x99", '', 'http://www.breitbart.com/video/2018/04/20/avenatti-cohen-going-flip-causing-trump-ultimately-resign-presidency/', 'http://media.breitbart.com/media/2018/04/SafariScreenSnapz001.jpg', '2018-04-20T16:57:20Z']
by Pam Key 20 Apr 2018 0
20 Apr, 2018
20 Apr, 2018
Friday on CNNs The Lead, Stormy Daniels attorney Michael Avenatti predicted that President Donald Trumps lawyer Michael Cohen is not going to hold up under the pressure of being investigated and begin to work with prosecutors which will cause the president to resign.
Avenatti said, My record thus far has been spot on. I dont think Ive been wrong about anything yet in the last five to six weeks. And I stand behind that claim that I made yesterday. Jake, there is a lot of evidence in this case, there is a lot of shoes yet to drop.
He continued, Michael Cohen is not going to hold up. Ive been saying that for weeks and now others are repeating it and getting on the bandwagon. Michael Cohen is going to flip on this president, and he knows where the bodies are buried or at least many of them. And I do not think that the president will last through the balance of his term. I just dont. Now well find out if Im right or wrong. But I think hes going to ultimately resign the presidency.
He added, Were talking about the presidents right-hand personal attorney, he is going to take the Fifth Amendment. Hell be charged with serious offenses. Im highly confident of that. And Im also highly confident that he has detailed information relating to efforts he undertook on behalf of this president across not just 2016 but many years prior to that. And Im highly confident that hes going to disclose that information to prosecutors, et cetera and the only out that the president will have, the only out, will be to resign the office. That is my prediction. And were going to find out if Im full of it or if Im accurate.
Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN
Read More Stories About:
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page .
BREITBART CONNECT
