['breitbart-news', '74', 'Frances Martel', 'Reports: North Korean State Media Announced Nuclear Program Shutdown', 'Various reports in American and South Korean state media Friday evening indicated that North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un announced the halt of nuclear and missile tests in his country. The reports did not specify whether the tests would conclude permanently.', 'http://www.breitbart.com/national-security/2018/04/20/north-korean-state-media-claims-shutdown-nuclear-program/', 'http://media.breitbart.com/media/2017/09/kim-jong-un-picking-apples-north-korea-getty.jpg', '2018-04-20T15:31:03Z']
Reports: North Korean State Media Announced Nuclear Program Shutdown
The Associated Press
by Frances Martel 20 Apr 2018 0
20 Apr, 2018
20 Apr, 2018
Various reports in American and South Korean state media Friday evening indicated that North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un announced the halt of nuclear and missile tests in his country. The reports did not specify whether the tests would conclude permanently.
The South Korean newswire service Yonhap reports that the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) published the announcement from Kim, which read, fromApril 21, North Korea will stop nuclear tests and launches of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
The North will shut down a nuclear test site in the countrys northern side to prove the vow to suspend nuclear test, the announcement concluded.
NK News, a website focusing on updates from the communist country, reported that Kim told a Workers Party of Korea (WPK) meeting that there was no need for such a nuclear program anymore.
Reuters also confirmed the KCNA report. Sputnik, a Russian state site, added the detail North Korea will join international efforts tohalt nuclear tests altogether, according to Kim.
At press time, the report does not appear on the aggregator of North Korean media content KCNA Watch (KCNAs website has long ceased to be available in the United States).
The announcement follows the debut of a historic direct hotline between Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who will meet Kim next Friday in the border town ofPanmunjom, Kims first visit to South Korea. The two nations agreed to a live broadcast of the summit, which reports have indicated would focus on the possibility of ending the Korean War  technically still ongoing, despite being at a stalemate  and the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula, a phrase that some have speculated North Korea will interpret to mean a diminished U.S. presence on the site. Kim reportedly told South Korean officials in a March meeting that denuclearization was father Kim Jong-ils  dying wish .
North Korea remains the worlds most prolific human rights abuser , strictly punishing citizens  with death or extended labor camp sentences for attempting to access Western media. Christian North Koreans, or those caught within the vicinity of Bibles, are routinely imprisoned and tortured. North Koreans are forced into a strict caste system known assongbun, in which multiple generations of families can be punished with poverty should any one member be suspected of opposing the Kim regime.
President Donald Trump is preparing to meet Kim in person at a summit in May or early June, according to the White House. No meeting between a U.S. leader and a Kim dynasty dictator has occurred since Kim Il-Sung founded the communist state in 1948.
Read More Stories About:
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page .
BREITBART CONNECT
