['breitbart-news', '78', 'AWR Hawkins', "Illinois County Declares Itself a 'Sanctuary County' for Gun Owners", 'Effingham County, Illinois, officially declared itself a "sanctuary county" for gun owners on Monday in reaction gun control overreach.', 'http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2018/04/20/illinois-county-declares-itself-a-sanctuary-county-for-gun-owners/', 'http://media.breitbart.com/media/2018/04/Sanctuary-County-for-Guns-Fox.jpg', '2018-04-20T13:48:26Z']
by AWR Hawkins 20 Apr 2018 0
20 Apr, 2018
20 Apr, 2018
Effingham County, Illinois, officially declared itself a sanctuary county for gun owners on Monday.
The sanctuary status means the county will refuse enforcement of any new state law which might unconstitutionally restrict the Second Amendment.
Fox News Insider reports the county board passed the sanctuary county resolution by a vote of eight to one on Monday.
County board member David Campbell indicated the vote was part of fighting against the constant encroachment on the Second Amendment. He said, [We] decided its time for someone to take a hard stand.
Effingham County States Attorney Bryan Kibler explained that the idea came from watching how the left declares sanctuary areas throughout the county as it relates to immigration. He said, So we thought  why dont we just make this a sanctuary county like they would for undocumented immigrants. So we did flip the script on it.
The impetus for the vote was a Deerfield, Illinois, decision not simply to bar residents from assault weapon ownership but to empower the police chief to confiscate such weapons once the ban goes into effect.

AWRHawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the hostof the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins , and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins ,a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins . Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com . Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange .
Read More Stories About:
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page .
BREITBART CONNECT
