['fox-news', '88', 'Fox News', 'Media war on Trump continues around the clock, and other proof of media bias', 'The media war against President Trump continues without stop.', 'http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2018/04/21/media-war-on-trump-continues-around-clock-and-other-proof-media-bias.html', 'http://a57.foxnews.com/media2.foxnews.com/BrightCove/694940094001/2018/04/18/0/0/694940094001_5772876771001_5772874043001-vs.jpg?ve=1', '2018-04-21T13:29:00+00:00']
New president in Cuba ends Castro family reign
NPR, paid for in part by your tax dollars, actually contradicted itself in one paragraph. It led with how Daz-Canel has been elected president of Cuba, officially ending the Castro family's decades of domination of the country's highest office. Then it added how the event might better be described as a coronation than an election. And, of course, Raul Castro is still going to lead the nations Communist Party and its military.
Not exactly stepping down.
The Chicago Tribune deserves high marks for being more accurate. It ran the headline, Miguel Diaz-Canel selected as next president of Cuba.
3. Making Book on Politics: The real problem with media bias isnt just bad news stories. Its that you often need to find better stories to offset the original and cross-reference them. Heres a great example.
CNNs Senior Media Correspondent Brian Stelter wrote a ridiculously one-sided story about The New York Times best-seller list. In Stelters world, Every top New York Times best-seller this year has been about Trump.
The problem with that is that The Times has a ridiculously skewed list and conservatives have complained about it for years. That point gets no acknowledgement at all from Stelter. All he admits is that there is a caveat about The Times list: Psychologist Jordan Peterson's book 12 Rules For Life has been a hot seller for months, and might have ranked No. 1, but because it is published by a Canadian company, it is not counted by the U.S. newspaper.
Hardly the only caveat. Lets turn to National Review and author Dennis Prager who wrote: The Times Best-Seller List: Another Reason Americans Dont Trust the Media. Prager made a strong argument. As a writer (who, for the record, had a previous book on that list), I have long known it isnt a best-seller list. His most recent book, The Rational Bible: Exodus, opened up on Amazon as the second-best-selling book in America. He looked to see if it was on the Times list. It wasnt.
This argument wasnt new. Even NPR knew about it back in September. Conservative book publisher Regnery has announced that it will no longer use the New York Times best-seller list in its promotional materials. Regnery says it is biased, it explained .
This all blew up on Wednesday, when the New York Times was confronted about its bias during a shareholders meeting. The Times even got into a Twitter war with Prager, because thats the kind of thing a neutral outlet does with a best-selling author.
4. The Rap on Social Security: Just as death and taxes go together, so do Social Security and  Cardi B? The 25-year-old rapper made news this week not just for what she said, but for who agreed with her. Cardi, as the music industry calls her, sang the praises of President Franklin Delano RooWedsevelt during a recent GQ interview . He's the real 'Make America Great Again,' because if it wasn't for him, old people wouldn't even get Social Security," she said.
Former presidential candidate Bernie Sanders put the media into overdrive by commenting on the interview . Cardi B is right. If we are really going to make America great we need to strengthen Social Security so that seniors are able to retire with the dignity they deserve.
Billboard headlined its piece: Bernie Sanders Quotes Noted Economist on Strengthening Social Security: 'Cardi B is Right.' That article even went on to talk about Cardis political future. Boom. Cardi said it. Sorry Kanye, but Cardi 2020? Because 2020 has to be even more moronic than 2018. (Thanks to her age, that silliness has to wait until at least 2028.)
Other media outlets followed  CNN, Yahoo, The Hill  pretty much every outlet looking for clicks involving a pop star and an aging socialist. Any way the news media can hype a liberal narrative, they do it. Even something as stupid as this.
Thankfully, theres always liberal Salon to push an even more liberal narrative. It wrote: Bernie Sanders may sing Cardi Bs praises  but sex workers say hes no ally. Yes Cardi, a former stripper, suddenly was caught up in a new battle. Because news can always get more insipid. Always.
Dan Gainor is the Media Research Center's Vice President for Business and Culture . He writes frequently about media for Fox News Opinion. He can also be contacted on Facebook and Twitter as dangainor.

