['national-geographic', '93', 'Elaina Zachos', 'Here Are Some Alternatives to Reef-Damaging Sunscreen', 'Harmful chemicals from sunscreen can leach into the ocean and damage coral. Here are some sun-blocking alternatives.', 'https://www.nationalgeographic.com/travel/features/sunscreen-destroying-coral-reefs-alternatives-travel-spd.html', 'https://www.nationalgeographic.com/content/dam/travel/2018-digital/sunscreen-coral-reef/sunscreen-coral-reef.jpg', '2018-04-21T20:07:11.4600853Z']
Here Are Some Alternatives to Reef-Damaging Sunscreen
Harmful chemicals from sunscreen can leach into the ocean and damage coral. Here are some sun-blocking alternatives.
View Images
A snorkeler with schooling smallmouth grunt at Champagne Beach.
Photograph by Jad Davenport, National Geographic Creative
From a distance, Australias Great Barrier Reef is an underwater gem. The reefs colorful corals serve as a submerged garden for a vibrant marine ecosystem that draws visitors to the area from all over the world. Snorkelers and scuba-divers alike can swim alongside some of the thousands of species of fish that make the reef their home . Lucky travelers might even catch a glimpse of the ecosystems dugongs or sea turtles.
But the ecosystem is fragile. Rising temperatures and harmful chemicals leaching into the water are bleaching the once-thriving reef . Human visitors might even be carrying some of these toxins on their skin.
When you swim with sunscreen on, chemicals like oxybenzone can seep into the water, where theyre absorbed by corals. These substances can disrupt corals reproduction and growth cycles, ultimately leading to bleaching. Even if you dont go swimming after applying sunscreen, it can still go down drains when you shower. Aerosol can often spray large amounts of sunscreen onto sand, where it gets washed into our oceans.
Humans might be responsible for this contamination, but were also capable of helping heal these fragile underwater ecosystems. (Related:  Your Bright Idea Could Save the Biggest Reef on Earth )
At-Risk Reefs
Coral reefs all over the world are threatened by pollution, and many of the most popular destination spots have the most at-risk coral. In addition to the Great Barrier Reef , heavy human traffic in the bays of Hawaii, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Israel are especially vulnerable.
Oahus Hanauma Bay , a state park that was formed within a volcanic cone , is one such example. The areas turquoise surf and vibrant coral gardens draw nearly 1 million tourists each year , making the spot one of Hawaiis best places for snorkeling. The bay is home to 450 species of fish and has the largest mass of reef anywhere in Oahu.
Hurricane Hole at the Virgin Islands Coral Reef National Monument , located off Saint John , is another popular spot. The submersed monument protects 22 miles of marine habitat , including 30 out of the 45 known coral species. Here, visitors can snorkel in the mangroves with coral, fish, and marine invertebrates.
The Final Show: Cuba's Coral Reefs
Israels popular Eilat Coral Beach Nature Reserve is another example. The Gulf of Eilat houses the countrys only coral reefs, which are a major draw for tourists. Bridges built over top of the reefs allow visitors to get a peek at the coral and colorful fish it houses. Scuba divers can also dive along the front and slope of the reef for a more intimate view.
If we lose coral reefs, we will have lost a vital ecosystem . We could also hurt our global economycoral reefs are a major tourist attraction and source of income for these popular vacation spots. (Related:  How One Country Is Restoring Its Damaged Ocean )
Steps for Reef Safety
Hawaii has taken steps to ban sunscreen thats not safe for coral , and lawmakers will vote on it at the end of the month. The bill could go into effect by July 2019.
But governments dont want people to stop using sunscreen all together, due to risks of burns and skin cancer. The good news is there are alternatives that are saferfor people and for coralthat dont include oxybenzone.
Haereticus Environmental Lab publishes a list each year of what sunscreens are safe for the environment , and organizations like the Environmental Working Group also publish a safe sunscreen guide . Mineral-based sunblocks that use titanium dioxide and zinc oxide are safer than the oxybenzone-containing alternatives. Sunscreens with non-nano size particles are safer because they cant be ingested by corals. Some sunscreens have a combination of nano-size and non-nano size particles, and the Consumer Products Inventory has a database that can tell you if your sunscreen contains nanoparticles.
Some tour companies in popular destinations like Mexico make it mandatory for visitors to wear only biodegradable sunscreen . Select Hawaiian resorts give out free reef-safe sunscreen samples that dont contain harmful chemicals. Many of these resorts will let patrons know of these restrictions in advance or list it on their websites.
Dermatologists say clothing is just as effective as sunscreen at protecting from the sun, with the only downside being it doesnt completely cover the body. Many companies offer sun-protecting clothing, such as long-sleeve rash guards or full-body swimsuits. When all else fails, put on a t-shirt.
PUBLISHED
