['national-geographic', '98', 'Heather Brady', '5 Times People Used Trees to Change the World', 'These people have used trees to fight climate change, help with diplomacy, and save their island.', 'https://news.nationalgeographic.com/2018/04/trees-impact-india-london-georgia-erosion-forest-culture.html', 'https://news.nationalgeographic.com/content/dam/news/2018/04/20/changing-world-with-trees/german-child-million-trees.jpg', '2018-04-21T20:07:10.9385849Z']
5 Times People Used Trees to Change the World
These people have used trees to fight climate change, help with diplomacy, and save their island.
View Images
Seen in August 2011, Felix Finkbeiner has made it his life's goal to plant trees. And he is getting a lot of help.
Photograph by Benno Kraehahn
PUBLISHED
April 21, 2018
In honor of Earth Day, weve rounded up some of our favorite National Geographic stories on people making a big impact around the world through treesplanting them, climbing them, and advocating for them.
Here are five stories celebrating trees and the people who love them.
This Teenager Has Planted More Than 14 Billion Trees
Felix Finkbeiner has been working steadily since he was a child planting trees to combat the effects of climate change. He spoke to the United Nations General Assembly when he was just nine years old about the inaction he saw from adults who were supposed to be preserving the planet for future generations.
Realizing that he and his peers would be living through the consequences of their passivity, Finkbeiner started the environmental group Plant-for-the-Planet , which then partnered with the UNs Billion Tree campaign . Together, they have set a new planting goal of one trillion trees, or about 150 trees for every person on Earth.
A Man in India Planted a Forest Bigger Than Central Park
Funded in part by Kickstarter, "Forest Man" was directed by William Douglas McMaster and won Best Documentary for the American Pavilion Emerging Filmmaker Showcase at the Cannes Film Festival in 2014. The Short Film Showcase spotlights exceptional short videos created by filmmakers from around the web and selected by National Geographic editors. Learn more here .
Jadav Payeng has been working since 1979 to plant hundreds of trees to save his island, which is threatened by erosion.
Northeast Indias Majuli Island, the worlds largest river island, was becoming a barren wasteland due to climate change. The Brahmaputra River that flows around it was eroding its shores at a steadily increasing rate.
The island, home to 150,000 people, has lost over half its land mass to erosion since 1917. But Payeng, a modern-day Johnny Appleseed, is protecting it by turning it into an oasis with a forest larger than Central Park. The forest is now home to elephants, rhinos, tigers, and more, and Payeng must protect it from a new threatthe humans who want to use it for economic gain.
This Man Brought Flowering Cherry Trees to Washington, D.C.
View Images
Cherry blossoms burst forth in pink every spring around the Tidal Basin in Washington, D.C.
SEAN PAVONE PHOTO/GETTY IMAGES

David Fairchild, a food explorer working for the U.S. government in the early 1900s, worked to bring fruits and plants to the United States at a time when the country feared foreign species. He introduced peaches, avocados, mangoesand came up with the idea for bringing Japanese cherry trees to America .
After seeing the trees in Japan and becoming enchanted by their beauty, Fairchild ordered some for his home near Chevy Chase, Maryland. So many people came to see the trees first bloom the following year that he gifted 300 of them to the city of Chevy Chase.
You Might Also Like
